In Oregon v. Mitchell , , the Supreme Court declared unconstitutional the parts of the law that required states to register 18-year-olds for state and local elections .
Congress and the state legislatures felt increasing pressure to pass the Constitutional amendment because of the Vietnam War , in which many young men who were ineligible to vote were conscripted to fight in the war , thus lacking any means to influence the people sending them off to risk their lives .
Under the U.S. Supreme Court 's landmark decision in Coleman v. Miller , , any proposed amendment which has been submitted to the states for ratification and does not specify a ratification deadline may be ratified by the states at any time .
On May 20 , 1992 , under the authority recognized in Coleman , and in keeping with the precedent first established regarding the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment , each house of the 102nd Congress passed its own version of a concurrent resolution agreeing that the amendment was validly ratified , despite the unorthodox period of more than 202 years for the completion of the task .
In Schaffer v. Clinton , the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit ruled that receiving such a COLA does not grant members of the Congress standing in federal court to challenge that COLA ; the Supreme Court did not hear either case and so has never ruled on Twenty-seventh Amendment to the United States Constitution effect on COLAs .
The Engler system , in Platanaceae 1964 update , also recognized the family and placed Platanaceae in the order Rosales in subclass Archichlamydeae of class Dicotyledoneae .
The earliest that Cypriniformes might have diverged from Characiphysi ( Characiformes and relatives ) is thought to be about the Early Triassic , about 250 million years ago ( mya ) .
If this were the case , Cypriniformes would have spread to Asia through Africa or North America .
The Catostomidae have some importance in angling , and some `` loaches '' are bred for the international aquarium fish trade .
Ironically , while pollution and other forms of overuse by humans have driven Cypriniformes from Cypriniformes native home , Cypriniformes is bred for the aquarium fish trade by the thousands .
Balitoridae and Cobitidae , meanwhile , contain a very large number of species about which essentially nothing is known except how Cypriniformes look and where Cypriniformes were first found .
ImClone Systems is now a fully owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company Yeda Research and Development , ImClone Systems set up to commercialize and market the products of research at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel , challenged the Aventis-owned patent , licensed by ImClone Systems , for the use of anti-Epidermal growth factor receptor antibodies in combination with chemotherapy , to slow the growth of certain tumors .
This is the so-called ' 866 ' patent which was filed in 1989 by Rhone-Poulenc-Rorer and issued in 2001 , on which Joseph Schlessinger was listed as first-named inventor .
Samuel D. `` Sam '' Waksal , Ph.D. , ( born 8 September 1947 ) is the founder and former CEO of the biopharmaceutical company ImClone Systems .
When Ralph de Neville died in 1425 , his lands and titles should , by law of rights , have passed on to his eldest surviving son from his first marriage , another Ralph Neville .
Instead , while the title of Earl of Westmorland and several manors were passed to Ralph , the bulk of his rich estate went to his wife , Joan Beaufort, Countess of Westmorland .
Henry VIII 's sixth wife , Catherine Parr , was also a descendant through Joan Beaufort, Countess of Westmorland and Ralph 's son , Richard Neville , 5th Earl of Salisbury , and thus Henry 's third cousin .
`` Les Automatistes '' were so called because Les Automatistes were influenced by Surrealism and Les Automatistes theory of automatism .
Barnard did Christiaan Barnard internship and residency at the Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town , after which Christiaan Barnard worked as a general practitioner in Ceres , a rural town in the Cape Province .
In 1951 , Christiaan Barnard returned to Cape Town where Christiaan Barnard worked at the City Hospital as a Senior Resident Medical Officer , and in the Department of Medicine at the Groote Schuur Hospital as a registrar .
The patient , Louis Washkansky , was a 54-year-old grocer , suffering from diabetes and incurable heart disease .
A transplant operation was conducted on 2 January 1968 , and the patient , Philip Blaiberg , survived for 19 months .
Forty-nine consecutive heterotopic heart transplants were performed in Cape Town between 1975 and 1984 .
Barnard later stated that the reason Christiaan Barnard never won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was probably because Christiaan Barnard was a `` white South African '' .
Barnard divided the remainder of Christiaan Barnard years between Austria , where Christiaan Barnard established the Christiaan Barnard Foundation , dedicated to helping underprivileged children throughout the world , and Christiaan Barnard game-farm in Beaufort West , South Africa .
His downfall to some extent is engineered by Delphine Roux , the young , female , elite , French intellectual who is dismayed to find herself in a New England outpost of sorts , and sees Silk as having become deadwood in academia , the very thing he abhorred at the beginning of his own career .
The Unicode character encoding standard includes the resin identification codes , between code points U +2673 and U +2679 inclusive in the Miscellaneous Symbols block .
In many communities throughout the United States , PETE and HDPE are the only plastics collected in municipal recycling programs ( e.g.
The next season , the Leafs appeared for the first time in the blue and white sweaters Toronto Maple Leafs have worn ever since .
The powerful defending champion Montreal Canadiens and their `` Punch Line '' ( Maurice `` Rocket '' Richard , Toe Blake and Elmer Lach ) , were the Leafs ' nemesis two years later when the two teams clashed in the 1947 finals .
Fletcher immediately set about building a competitive club , making a series of trades and free agent acquisitions which turned Toronto Maple Leafs from an also-ran into a contender almost overnight , starting in 1992 -- 93 .
Outstanding play from forwards Doug Gilmour ( a Calgary acquaintance of Fletcher 's ) and Dave Andreychuk ( acquired from the Buffalo Sabres in exchange for Grant Fuhr ) , as well as stellar goaltending from minor league call-up Felix Potvin , led the team to a then-franchise-record 99 points , third place in the Norris Division , and the eighth-best overall record in the league .
Toronto Maple Leafs eliminated divisional rival Chicago Blackhawks in six games and the San Jose Sharks in seven before falling to the Vancouver Canucks in five games in the Western Conference Finals .
In 1958 , a six-eyelet lace and tie was added to the neck and a blue shoulder yoke was added .
Other changes to the sweater removed the arm stripes , extended the yoke to the end of the sleeves , added a solid stripe on the waist , three stripes on the stockings and a miniature Leaf crest added to shoulders .
In 1977 , player names were added to the away jerseys and in 1979 to the home jerseys , but not until after Toronto Maple Leafs were fined by the NHL for refusing to comply with a new rule requiring player names on the jerseys .
So fierce was the rivalry that when the Rangers reached the finals against Detroit in 1950 , but could not play in their home rink , Madison Square Garden , because the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus were in town , they arranged to play home games in Toronto , whose fans hated the Wings .
The teams ' proximity to each other -- Toronto and Detroit are approximately 380 km apart -- and a number of shared fans ( particularly in markets such as Windsor , Ontario ) added to the rivalry .
The 2013 NHL Winter Classic would have been played between the Red Wings and Toronto Maple Leafs at Michigan Stadium on January 1 , 2013 .
The rivalry between Toronto Maple Leafs and the Ottawa Senators , known as the Battle of Ontario , heated up during the late 1990s , owing to the Canadiens ' struggles during that period .
There are some ISO standards related to recycling such as ISO 15270:2008 for plastics waste and ISO 14001:2004 for environmental management control of recycling practice .
However , this is often difficult or too expensive ( compared with producing the same product from raw materials or other sources ) , so `` recycling '' of many products or materials involves their reuse in producing different materials ( e.g. , paperboard ) instead .
During periods when resources were scarce , archaeological studies of ancient waste dumps show less household waste ( such as ash , broken tools and pottery ) -- implying more waste was being recycled in the absence of new material .
In 1813 , Benjamin Law developed the process of turning rags into ` shoddy ' and ` mungo ' wool in Batley , Yorkshire .
The West Yorkshire shoddy industry in towns such as Batley and Dewsbury , lasted from the early 19th century to at least 1914 .
An official recycling system with refundable deposits was established in Sweden for bottles in 1884 and aluminium beverage cans in 1982 , by law , leading to a recycling rate for beverage containers of 84 -- 99 percent depending on type , and average use of a glass bottle is over 20 refills .
Recycling aluminium uses only 5 % of the energy required by virgin production ; glass , paper and metals have less dramatic but very significant energy savings when recycled feedstock is used .
Utilization rates are a more flexible option : industries are permitted to meet the recycling targets at any point of Recycling operation or even contract recycling out in exchange for tradeable credits .
These systems lie along the spectrum of trade-off between public convenience and government ease and expense .
Preliminary life-cycle analysis ( LCA ) indicates that such distributed recycling of HDPE to make filament of 3-D printers in rural regions is energetically favorable to either using virgin resin or conventional recycling processes because of reductions in transportation energy Once commingled recyclates are collected and delivered to a central collection facility , the different types of materials must be sorted .
In 2010 , the International Resource Panel , hosted by the United Nations Environment Programme ( UNEP ) published reports on metal stocks that exist within society and their recycling rates .
The Panel reported that the increase in the use of metals during the 20th and into the 21st century has led to a substantial shift in metal stocks from below ground to use in applications within society above ground .
For example , the in-use stock of copper in the USA grew from 73 to 238 kg per capita between 1932 and 1999 .
Some industries , like the renewable energy industry and solar photovoltaic technology in particular , are being proactive in setting up recycling policies even before there is considerable volume to Recycling waste streams , anticipating future demand during Recycling rapid growth .
Type 1 plastic , PET ( or PETE ) : polyethylene terephthalate , is commonly found in soft drink and water bottles .
Type 2 , HDPE : high-density polyethylene is found in most hard plastics such as milk jugs , laundry detergent bottles , and some dishware .
Type 4 , called LDPE , or low-density polyethylene , is found in shopping bags , squeezable bottles , tote bags , clothing , furniture , and carpet .
There are reports of illegal-waste imports to China being dismantled and recycled solely for monetary gain , without consideration for workers ' health or environmental damage .
The concept of sustainable design aims to solve this problem , and was laid out in the book '' '' by architect William McDonough and chemist Michael Braungart .
Moreover , the highest emergy efficiency accrues from systems geared toward material recycling , where materials are engineered to recycle back into their original form and purpose , followed by adaptive reuse systems where the materials are recycled into a different kind of product , and then by-product reuse systems where parts of the products are used to make an entirely different product .
An Emergy life-cycle analysis on Recycling revealed that fly ash , aluminum , recycled concrete aggregate , recycled plastic , and steel yield higher efficiency ratios , whereas the recycling of lumber generates the lowest recycle benefit ratio .
Hence , the specific nature of Recycling , the methods used to analyse Recycling , and the products involved affect the energy savings budgets .
Economist Steven Landsburg has suggested that the sole benefit of reducing landfill space is trumped by the energy needed and resulting pollution from Recycling .
Others , however , have calculated through life cycle assessment that producing recycled paper uses less energy and water than harvesting , pulping , processing , and transporting virgin trees .
Historically , this was identified as the metabolic rift by Karl Marx , who identified the unequal exchange rate between energy and nutrients flowing from rural areas to feed urban cities that create effluent wastes degrading the planets ecological capital , such as loss in soil nutrient production .
Additionally , a United States Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) study that tracked the price of clear glass from July 15 to August 2 , 1991 , found that the average cost per ton ranged from $ 40 to $ 60 , while a USGS report shows that the cost per ton of raw silica sand from years 1993 to 1997 fell between $ 17.33 and $ 18.10 .
In areas without many environmental regulations and/or worker protections , jobs involved in recycling such as ship breaking can result in deplorable conditions for both workers and the surrounding communities Economist Steven Landsburg , author of a paper entitled `` Why I Am Not an Environmentalist , '' has claimed that paper recycling actually reduces tree populations .
Also , the new trees planted are not as big as the trees that were cut down , and the argument that there will be `` more trees '' is not compelling to forestry advocates when Recycling are counting saplings .
Discovery channel answers the question that asserts how recycling has helped reduce landfill by mentioning that recycling efforts are noticeable because we can all help deter more than 60 million pounds of waste and prevent Recycling from overflowing landfills and entering the ocean .
Recycling are airtight , so oxygen and moisture do not break down the trash the same way Recycling would in a dump , '' clearly the environment needs recycling more than we imagined .
`` Between 1960 and 2000 , the world production of plastic resins increased 25-fold , while recovery of the material remained below 5 percent '' .
John Beaufort , 1st Marquess of Somerset and 1st Marquess of Dorset , later only 1st Earl of Somerset , KG ( 1373 -- 16 March 1410 ) was the first of the four illegitimate children of John of Gaunt , 1st Duke of Lancaster , and John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset mistress Katherine Swynford , later John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset wife .
The family emblem was the portcullis which is shown on the reverse of British pennies minted between 1971 and 2008 .
Despite being the grandchildren of Edward III , and next in the line of succession after their father 's legitimate children , the Lancasters , the Beauforts , including John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset , were initially barred from succession to the throne .
In 1396 , after John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset parents ' marriage , John and John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset siblings were legitimated by a papal bull .
After Richard II was deposed by Henry Bolingbroke in 1399 , the new king rescinded the titles that had been given to the counter-appellants , and thus John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset became merely Earl of Somerset again .
John Beaufort and John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset wife Margaret Beaufort , Countess of Somerset ( née Holland ) , the daughter of Thomas Holland , 2nd Earl of Kent and Alice FitzAlan , had six children ; John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset granddaughter Lady Margaret Beaufort married a son , ( Edmund Tudor , 1st Earl of Richmond ) , of dowager queen Catherine of Valois by Owen Tudor -- thus creating a powerful branch of the Lancastrian family which enabled the issue of that ( Beaufort ) marriage , Henry Tudor , ultimately to claim the throne , as Henry VII , in spite of the agreement barring the Beaufort family from the succession .
Anthony Trollope suffered much misery in Anthony Trollope boyhood owing to the disparity between Anthony Trollope family 's social background and Anthony Trollope own comparative poverty .
To learn them without expense to Anthony Trollope and Anthony Trollope family , Anthony Trollope took a position as an usher in a school in Brussels , which position made Anthony Trollope the tutor of thirty boys .
A debt of # 12 to a tailor fell into the hands of a moneylender and grew to over # 200 ; the lender regularly visited Trollope at Anthony Trollope work to demand payments .
The position was not regarded as a desirable one at all ; but Trollope , in debt and in trouble at Anthony Trollope office , volunteered for it ; and Anthony Trollope supervisor , William Maberly , eager to be rid of Anthony Trollope , appointed Anthony Trollope to the position .
Anthony Trollope professional role as a post-office surveyor brought Anthony Trollope into contact with Irish people , and Anthony Trollope found them pleasant company : `` The Irish people did not murder Anthony Trollope , nor did they even break Anthony Trollope head .
They became engaged when Anthony Trollope had been in Ireland for a year ; because of Trollope 's debts and her lack of a fortune , they were unable to marry until 1844 .
A fourth , The Kellys and the O'Kellys ( 1848 ) is a humorous comparison of the romantic pursuits of the landed gentry ( Francis O'Kelly , Lord Ballindine ) and Anthony Trollope Catholic tenant ( Martin Kelly ) .
Thackeray and Smith both responded : the former urging Anthony Trollope to contribute , the latter offering # 1000 for a novel , provided that a substantial part of it could be available to the printer within six weeks .
Trollope offered Smith Castle Richmond , which Anthony Trollope was then writing ; but Smith declined to accept an Irish story , and suggested a novel dealing with English clerical life as had Barchester Towers .
Framley Parsonage proved enormously popular , establishing Trollope 's reputation with the novel-reading public and amply justifying the high price that Smith had paid for it .
Even when Anthony Trollope died in 1882 , Australian papers still `` smouldered '' , referring yet again to these accusations , and refusing to fully praise or recognise Anthony Trollope achievements .
Julian Hawthorne , an American writer , critic and friend of Trollope , while praising Anthony Trollope as a man , calling Anthony Trollope `` a credit to England and to human nature , and ... deserving to be numbered among the darlings of mankind '' , also says that `` Anthony Trollope has done great harm to English fictitious literature by Anthony Trollope novels '' .
However , Anthony Trollope may have had some influence on James 's own work ; the earlier novelist 's treatment of family tensions , especially between fathers and daughters , may resonate in some of James ' novels .
Contemporaries of Trollope praised Anthony Trollope understanding of the quotidian world of institutions , official life , and daily business ; Anthony Trollope is one of the few novelists who find the office a creative environment .
In the 1940s , Trollopians made attempts to resurrect Anthony Trollope reputation ; Anthony Trollope enjoyed a critical renaissance in the 1960s , and again in the 1990s .
The inability to marry may be due to differences in social rank ( including slave status ) , or because the man is already married .
The principal difference in the Bible between a wife and a concubine is that wives had dowries , while Concubinage did not .
The Bible notes several incidents of intercourse between a man and another man 's concubine , and none of them resulted in capital punishment for either party , although the man to whom the concubine belonged was dishonored by such a relationship .
According to the Babylonian Talmud , the difference between a concubine and a full wife was that the latter received a marriage contract ( Hebrew : ketubah ) and her marriage ( nissu'in ) was preceded by a formal betrothal ( erusin ) .
Certain Jewish thinkers , such as Maimonides , believed that Concubinage were strictly reserved for kings , and thus that a commoner may not have a concubine .
Other Jewish thinkers , such as Nahmanides , Samuel ben Uri Shraga Phoebus , and Jacob Emden , strongly objected to the idea that Concubinage should be forbidden .
It is further clarified that all domestic and organizational female employees are not concubines in this era and hence sex is forbidden with them unless Nikkah ( formal marriage ) or mut ` ah ( temporary marriage - which only Shiite Islam permits ) is committed through the proper channels .
Marriage between the races was prohibited by law in the colonies and the later United States .
A 1998 DNA study showed a match between the Jefferson male line and a male descendant of Sally Hemings .
French-speaking and practicing Catholics , who combined French and African-American culture , created an elite between the whites of European descent and the masses of slaves .
That the Wiradjuri said wirraay , as opposed to some other word for `` no '' , was seen as a distinctive feature of Wiradjuri speech , and several other tribes in New South Wales , to the west of the Great Dividing Range , are similarly named after Wiradjuri own words for `` no '' .
Campsites , which indicate regular seasonal occupation by small groups , have been found on river flats , open land and by rivers .
The story prominently features various concepts in Wiradjuri folklore and tradition , such as the ngurupal : this is an area within the tribal territory which is a public assembly space for adult male Wiradjuri who have been formally initiated into manhood , yet which is forbidden ground for females or uninitiated males .
Thomas Beaufort , 1st Duke of Exeter ( c. 1377 -- c. 31 December 1426 ) was an English military commander during the Hundred Years ' War , and briefly Chancellor of England .
Finally in 1419 Thomas Beaufort, Duke of Exeter took the great fortress of Chateau-Gaillard , midway between Rouen and Paris , after a six-month siege .
As climbing form and table form construction method and efficient construction management are used in this project which make this reinforced concrete structure take no longer construction time than the steel structure .
The fictional Drones barman , McGarry , has the same surname as the Buck 's first bartender , a Mr McGarry ( Buck 's barman from 1919 to 1941 , credited with creating the Buck 's Fizz and Sidecar cocktails ) .
Among the Wodehouse works , what was later dubbed the `` Drones Club series '' is a loose set of separate stories told by various narrators , which are either told at Drones Club , or have some events happening at Drones Club , or a club member for protagonist .
This is allegedly based on the habit Drones Club have of addressing each other as `` old egg '' , `` old bean '' , or `` my dear old crumpet '' ... although , in fact , no character in the stories actually addresses another character by these nicknames .
The Bean asked what the Bella Mae Jobson affair was , and the Crumpet , expressing surprise that he had not heard of Drones Club , said that Drones Club was the affair of Bella Mae Jobson .
A moral ( from Latin morālis ) is a message conveyed or a lesson to be learned from a story or .
As an example of an explicit maxim , at the end of Aesop 's fable of the Tortoise and the Hare , in which the plodding and determined tortoise wins a race against the much-faster yet extremely arrogant hare , the stated moral is `` slow and steady wins the race '' .
Part of the reason for this was the writings of John Locke and Jean-Jacques Rousseau in the 18th century , which brought attention to children as an audience for literature .
Following in their line of thought , Thomas Day ( 1748-1789 ) wrote Sandford and Merton , elevating the outstanding morals of one young boy above the rapscallion nature of another .
Wilhelm Marr ( November 16 , 1819 -- July 17 , 1904 ) was a German agitator and publicist , who popularized the term `` antisemitism '' ( 1881 ) .
In Wilhelm Marr pamphlet Der Weg zum Siege des Germanenthums über das Judenthum ( The Way to Victory of Germanicism over Judaism , 1879 ) Wilhelm Marr introduced the idea that Germans and Jews were locked in a longstanding conflict , the origins of which Wilhelm Marr attributed to race -- and that the Jews were winning .
Furthermore , Marr Wilhelm Marr was very vague about what constituted race and , in turn , the racial differences between Jews and Germans , though this became a feature of Nazi racial `` science '' .
It remained for later racial thinkers to postulate specific differences : these included Eugen Dühring , who suggested that it was blood , and Houston Stewart Chamberlain , an influential race theorist and husband of Eva Wagner , Richard Wagner 's daughter , who suggested phrenology as a means of distinguishing races .
Frank Harris ( February 14 , 1856 -- August 27 , 1931 ) was an editor , journalist and publisher , who was friendly with many well-known figures of Frank Harris day .
Though Frank Harris attracted much attention during Frank Harris life for Frank Harris irascible , aggressive personality , editorship of famous periodicals , and friendship with the talented and famous , Frank Harris is remembered mainly for Frank Harris multiple-volume memoir Frank Harris Life and Loves , which was banned in countries around the world for its sexual explicitness .
The 13-year old took a series of odd jobs to support Frank Harris , working first as a boot black , a porter , a general laborer , and a construction worker who assisted with the erection of the Brooklyn Bridge .
Cole Porter 's song `` After All , Frank Harris 'm Only a Schoolgirl '' references Harris and `` Frank Harris Life and Loves '' , in a tale about a girl who is learning about adult relationships from a private tutor .
Frank Harris is Only a Schoolgirl '' references Harris and `` My Life and Loves '' , in a tale about a girl who is learning about adult relationships from a private tutor .
Henri Barbusse ( May 17 , 1873 -- August 30 , 1935 ) was a French novelist and a member of the French Communist Party .
Henri Barbusse later works , Manifeste aux Intellectuels ( Elevations ) ( 1930 ) and others show a more revolutionary standpoint .
Of these , the 1921 Le Couteau entre les dents ( The Knife Between Henri Barbusse Teeth ) marks Barbusse 's siding with Bolshevism and the October Revolution .
Lucy Webb Hayes ( August 28 , 1831 -- June 25 , 1889 ) was a First Lady of the United States and the wife of President Rutherford B. Hayes .
Born in Chillicothe , Ohio , the daughter of James Webb , a doctor , and Maria Cook-Webb , Lucy was descended from seven veterans of the American Revolution .
Later that year , Lucy Webb Hayes enrolled at Wesleyan Women 's College , class of 1850 ( which later merged with Ohio Wesleyan University ) ; Lucy Webb Hayes was the first first lady to have graduated from college and was a member of Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority .
The social highlight of the Hayes ' years was their twenty-fifth wedding anniversary celebration , at which the President and the First Lady repeated their vows at a White House ceremony before many of the same guests who had attended the original nuptials in Cincinnati .
Lucy Webb Hayes is the first first lady to have graduated from college and was a member of Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority .
Caravaggio paintings , which combine a realistic observation of the human state , both physical and emotional , with a dramatic use of lighting , had a formative influence on the Baroque school of painting .
During the Counter-Reformation , the Roman Catholic Church searched for religious art with which to counter the threat of Protestantism , and for this task the artificial conventions of Mannerism , which had ruled art for almost a century , no longer seemed adequate .
An early published notice on Caravaggio , dating from 1604 and describing Caravaggio lifestyle three years previously , tells how `` after a fortnight 's work Caravaggio will swagger about for a month or two with a sword at Caravaggio side and a servant following Caravaggio , from one ball-court to the next , ever ready to engage in a fight or an argument , so that it is most awkward to get along with him '' .
Caravaggio was involved in a brawl in Malta in 1608 , and another in Naples in 1609 , possibly a deliberate attempt on Caravaggio life by unidentified enemies .
Caravaggio ( Michelangelo Merisi ) was born in Milan where Caravaggio father , Fermo Merisi ( Fermo Merixio ) , was a household administrator and architect-decorator to the Marchese of Caravaggio , a town not far from the city of Bergamo .
Known works from this period include a small Boy Peeling a Fruit ( Caravaggio earliest known painting ) , a Boy with a Basket of Fruit , and the Young Sick Bacchus , supposedly a self-portrait done during convalescence from a serious illness that ended Caravaggio employment with Cesari .
At this point Caravaggio forged some extremely important friendships , with the painter Prospero Orsi , the architect Onorio Longhi , and the sixteen-year-old Sicilian artist Mario Minniti .
Orsi , established in the profession , introduced Caravaggio to influential collectors ; Longhi , more balefully , introduced Caravaggio to the world of Roman street-brawls ; and Minniti served as a model and , years later , would be instrumental in helping Caravaggio to important commissions in Sicily .
The first of these was the Penitent Magdalene , showing Mary Magdalene at the moment when she has turned from her life as a courtesan and sits weeping on the floor , her jewels scattered around her .
The works , while viewed by a comparatively limited circle , increased Caravaggio 's fame with both connoisseurs and Caravaggio fellow artists .
This shift from accepted standard practice and the classical idealism of Michelangelo was very controversial at the time .
The two works making up the commission , the Martyrdom of Saint Matthew and Calling of Saint Matthew , delivered in 1600 , were an immediate sensation .
Some denounced Caravaggio for various perceived failings , notably Caravaggio insistence on painting from life , without drawings , but for the most part Caravaggio was hailed as a great artistic visionary : `` The painters then in Rome were greatly taken by this novelty , and the young ones particularly gathered around Caravaggio , praised Caravaggio as the unique imitator of nature , and looked on Caravaggio work as miracles '' .
A cardinal 's secretary wrote : `` In this painting there are but vulgarity , sacrilege , impiousness and disgust ... One would say it is a work made by a painter that can paint well , but of a dark spirit , and who has been for a lot of time far from God , from Caravaggio adoration , and from any good thought ... '' The Death of the Virgin , then , commissioned in 1601 by a wealthy jurist for Caravaggio private chapel in the new Carmelite church of Santa Maria della Scala , was rejected by the Carmelites in 1606 .
The point , however , is the intense yet ambiguous reality of the work : it is simultaneously Cupid and Cecco , as Caravaggio Virgins were simultaneously the Mother of Christ and the Roman courtesans who modeled for them .
Caravaggio was notorious for brawling , even in a time and place when such behavior was commonplace , and the transcripts of Caravaggio police records and trial proceedings fill several pages .
There , outside the jurisdiction of the Roman authorities and protected by the Colonna family , the most famous painter in Rome became the most famous in Naples .
Contemporary reports depict a man whose behaviour was becoming increasingly bizarre , sleeping fully armed and in Caravaggio clothes , ripping up a painting at a slight word of criticism , mocking the local painters .
Caravaggio style continued to evolve -- Saint Ursula is caught in a moment of highest action and drama , as the arrow fired by the king of the Huns strikes her in the breast , unlike earlier paintings which had all the immobility of the posed models .
With this came the acute observation of physical and psychological reality which formed the ground both for Caravaggio immense popularity and for Caravaggio frequent problems with Caravaggio religious commissions .
Some have been identified , including Mario Minniti and Francesco Boneri , both fellow artists , Mario appearing as various figures in the early secular works , the young Francesco as a succession of angels , Baptists and Davids in the later canvasses .
The body of Lazarus is still in the throes of rigor mortis , but Caravaggio hand , facing and recognizing that of Christ , is alive .
In the following generation the effects of Caravaggio , although attenuated , are to be seen in the work of Rubens ( who purchased one of Caravaggio paintings for the Gonzaga of Mantua and painted a copy of the Entombment of Christ ) , Vermeer , Rembrandt , and Velázquez , the last of whom presumably saw his work during his various sojourns in Italy .
Baglione , Caravaggio first biographer , played a considerable part in creating the legend of Caravaggio 's unstable and violent character , as well as Caravaggio inability to draw .
`` Michelangelo Merisi , son of Fermo di Caravaggio -- in painting not equal to a painter , but to Nature itself -- died in Port ' Ercole -- betaking Caravaggio hither from Naples -- returning to Rome -- 15th calend of August -- In the year of our Lord 1610 -- Caravaggio lived thirty-six years nine months and twenty days -- Marzio Milesi , Jurisconsult -- Dedicated this to a friend of extraordinary genius '' .
Oology ( or oölogy ) is a branch of ornithology studying bird eggs , nests and breeding behavior .
However owners of genuinely old collections are unlikely to face prosecution as experienced investigators and prosecutors are able to distinguish them from recently collected eggs .
Museums will often accept donations of collections , but those with reliable collection data ( i.e. date and place that Oology were collected ) have greater scientific value .
On 8 August the troops were given a well-earned rest between Penrith and Kendal .
Thomas Fairfax emerged for a moment from his retirement to organize the Yorkshire levies , and the best of these as well as of the Lancashire , Cheshire and Staffordshire militias were directed upon Warrington , which Harrison reached on 15 August , a few hours in front of Charles 's advanced guard .
Cromwell meanwhile , leaving George Monck with the least efficient regiments to carry on the war in Scotland , had reached the river Tyne in seven days , and thence , marching 20 miles a day in extreme heat with the country people carrying their arms and equipment the regulars entered Ferrybridge on 19 August , at which date Lambert , Harrison and the north-western militia were about Congleton .
The military quality of the Welsh border Royalists was well proved , that of the Gloucestershire Presbyterians not less so , and , in basing himself on Gloucester and Worcester as his father had done on Oxford , Charles II hoped , naturally , to deal with the Independent faction minority of the English people more effectually than Charles I had earlier dealt with the majority of the people of England who had supported the Parliamentary cause .
On 30 August Cromwell delayed the start of the battle to give time for two pontoon bridges to be constructed one over the Severn and the other over the Teme close to their confluence .
The Royalist position became untenable when the Essex militia stormed and captured Fort Royal , ( a redoubt on a small hill to the south-east of Worcester overlooking the Sidbury gate ) , turning the Royalist guns to fire on Worcester .
Even the country people brought in scores of prisoners , for officers and men alike , stunned by the suddenness of the disaster , offered no resistance .
Secretin and cholecystokinin are released from cells in the Duodenum epithelium in response to acidic and fatty stimuli present there when the pylorus opens and releases gastric chyme into the duodenum for further digestion .
The junction between the embryological foregut and midgut lies just below the major Duodenum papilla .
Proximal to the 2nd part of the duodenum ( approximately at the major duodenal papilla -- where the bile duct enters ) the arterial supply is from the gastroduodenal artery and Duodenum branch the superior pancreaticoduodenal artery .
Highgate Cemetery is divided into two parts , named the East and West cemetery .
The Egyptian Avenue and the Circle of Lebanon ( topped by a huge Cedar of Lebanon ) feature tombs , vaults and winding paths dug into hillsides .
For Highgate Cemetery protection , the oldest section , which holds an impressive collection of Victorian mausoleums and gravestones , plus elaborately carved tombs , allows admission only in tour groups .
The Friends of Highgate Cemetery Trust was set up in 1975 and acquired the freehold of both East and West Cemeteries by 1981 , since when they have had responsibility for the maintenance of the location .
The most famous burial in the East cemetery is probably Karl Marx ( whose tomb 's attempted bombings on 2 September 1965 and in 1970 are still recalled by some Highgate residents ) , and Highgate Cemetery is celebrated by a memorial ( he was buried nearby ) .
There are many other prominent figures , Victorian and otherwise , buried at Highgate Cemetery .
Though Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin popularity rested initially on paintings of animals and fruit , by the 1730s Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin introduced kitchen utensils into Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin work ( The Copper Cistern , ca. 1735 , Louvre ) .
Woman Sealing a Letter ( ca. 1733 ) , which may have been Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin first attempt , was followed by half-length compositions of children saying grace , as in Le Bénédicité , and kitchen maids in moments of reflection .
The wedding may have been held between 28 January and 7 February 1444 , when Lady Margaret Beaufort was perhaps , a year old , but certainly , no more than three .
Papal dispensation was granted on 18 August 1450 because the spouses were too closely related and this concurs with the later date of marriage .
From the age of two , Henry lived with his father 's family in Wales and from the age of fourteen , he lived in exile in France .
In 1472 , sixteen years after his death , Margaret specified in Lady Margaret Beaufort will that Lady Margaret Beaufort wanted to be buried alongside Edmund , even though Lady Margaret Beaufort had enjoyed a long , stable and close relationship with Lady Margaret Beaufort third husband , who had died in 1471 .
A dispensation for the marriage , necessary because Margaret and Stafford were second cousins , was granted on 6 April .
Furthermore , various societies , including the Lady Margaret Society as well as the Beaufort Club at Christ 's , and the Lady Margaret Boat Club at John 's , were named after Lady Margaret Beaufort .
The severe black of Lady Margaret Beaufort widow 's weeds contrasts with the splendour of Lady Margaret Beaufort private apartment , where every surface is patterned , even the floor alternating cream-coloured and terracotta tiles .
Lady Margaret Beaufort is portrayed as a woman of extreme ambition and piety , with a hint of ruthlessness for those who stand in the way of the Tudor Dynasty .
Lady Margaret 's own son Henry VII ( and all English , British , and UK sovereigns who followed ) are descended from Gaunt and Swynford , Henry VII having come to the throne not through inheritance but by force of arms .
Whites constitute the majority of Demographics of the United States , with a total of 223,553,265 or 72.4 % of the population in the 2010 United States Census .
Demographics of the United States reached the 200 million mark in 1967 , and the 300 million mark on October 17 , 2006 .
Under the current law , the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 , the number of first-generation immigrants living in the United States has quadrupled , from 9.6 million in 1970 to about 38 million in 2007 .
The Census Bureau reported that minorities accounted for 50.4 % of the children born in the U.S. between July 2010 and July 2011 , compared to 37 % in 1990 .
§ § § × § All Data from 2010 U.S. Census Bureau American Indian or Alaskan Native Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander There were 22.1 million veterans in 2009 .
A report by the U.S. Census Bureau projects a decrease in the ratio of Whites between 2010 and 2050 , from 79.5 % to 74.0 % .
The first phase consists of times of relative crisis and the people born during this period were called `` artists '' .
The most recent `` high period '' occurred in the 1950s and 1960s ( hence baby boomers are the most recent crop of `` prophets '' ) .
A definitive recent study of US generational cohorts was done by Schuman and Scott ( 2012 ) in which a broad sample of adults of all ages were asked , `` What world events are especially important to you ?
Although post-peak births ( such as trailing edge boomers ) are in decline , and sometimes referred to as a `` bust '' , there are still a relative large number of births .
The trend in birth rates from 1958 to 1961 show a tendency to end late in the decade at approximately 1969 , thus returning to pre-WWII levels , with 12 years of rising and 12 years of declining birth rates .
Then came `` Generation Y '' also known as Millennials sometimes a second cohort of the Baby Bust era , and finally Generation Z who are mostly the children of Generation X .
While Federal republic manages this division of powers differently , national security and defense , monetary policy , and other issues of a `` national '' scope are handled at the `` federal '' level while more local issues such as road and infrastructure maintenance and education policy are handled at the local level .
The plot focuses on a group of female students at an Australian women 's college in 1900 who inexplicably vanish at the site of an enormous rock formation while on a Valentine 's Day picnic , and also explores the outlying effects the girls ' disappearance has on the community .
The excursion ends in tragedy when three of the girls , and later one of their teachers , mysteriously vanish while climbing Picnic at Hanging Rock (novel) .
We are told that both the College , and the Woodend Police Station where records of the investigation were kept , are destroyed by fire shortly afterwards .
However , while the geological feature , Hanging Rock , and the several towns mentioned are actual places near Mount Macedon , Picnic at Hanging Rock (novel) is not completely true .
Picnic at Hanging Rock (novel) was adapted by playwright Laura Annawyn Shamas in 1987 and published by Dramatic Publishing Company .
Subsequently , Picnic at Hanging Rock (novel) has had many productions in the US , Canada , and Australia .
Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley tutors included the Scottish scholar , John Elder , who had been an advocate of Anglo-Scottish union by the marriage of Mary , Queen of Scots , to Prince Edward , and gave Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley opinions to Henry VIII as the Advice of a Redshank in 1543 .
Darnley wrote a letter to Mary I of England from Temple Newsam in March 1554 mentioning a drama or map Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley had made , the Utopia Nova .
The `` Lennox crisis '' refers to the political dilemma in England which arose from the dynastic ambition of the Lennoxes : Matthew Stewart , 4th Earl of Lennox , was third in line to the Scottish throne , and Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley wife Margaret Douglas was niece to Henry VIII and granddaughter of Henry VII .
Nesbit was assigned by Lennox to watch Mary and Darnley , as was Darnley 's tutor , John Elder .
Secondly , favouring the Lennoxes could serve as some kind of appeasement of the English Roman Catholics , who , like the Spanish ambassador , might foresee Elizabeth naming Darnley as her successor ... Such speculation would also distract them from favouring the more alarming claim of the Queen of Scots ... thirdly , and most significantly , the elevation of the Lennoxes presented an obstacle between the Queen of Scots and the English throne .
Thus was Darnley 's uniquely ` British ' inheritance put to use at last ... The subsequent release of Darnley into Scotland and the restoration of Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley father at the Scottish Court were part of this policy : the political disaster of the Darnley marriage as yet unforeseen '' .
According to the English diplomats Thomas Randolph and the Earl of Bedford , the murder of David Rizzio ( who was rumoured to be the father of Mary 's unborn child ) was Darnley 's own addition to the plot of winning over the Crown Matrimonial .
However , on 20 March , Darnley posted a declaration denying all knowledge of or complicity in the Rizzio conspiracy .
On 27 March , the Earl of Morton and Lord Ruthven , who were both present at Rizzio 's murder and had fled to England , wrote to Cecil explaining that Darnley had initiated the murder plot and recruited them , because of Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley `` heich quarrel '' and `` deadly hatred '' of Rizzio .
Following the birth of their son , the future James VI , the succession was more secure ; in late 1566 and early 1567 , Darnley and Mary appeared to be close to reconciliation as she was often seen visiting Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley chambers .
On 10 February 1567 , the bodies of Henry and Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley valet were discovered in the orchard of Kirk o ' Field , in Edinburgh , where they had been staying .
Darnley 's body and the body of Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley valet , William Taylor , were found outside , surrounded by a cloak , a dagger , a chair and a coat .
This was viewed as a motive for Bothwell to have Darnley murdered , with help from some of the nobility and seemingly with royal approval .
Although initially cleared of any involvement in the murder , Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley was offered up by the conspirators and convicted at a show trial , after which Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley was executed by being hanged , drawn and quartered before each of Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley limbs was nailed to the gates of a different Scottish town .
Cinema of Australia , more commonly referred to as Cinema of Australia , refers to the system of production , distribution , and exhibition of films in Cinema of Australia .
The Australian film history has been characterized as one of ` boom and bust ' due to the unstable and cyclical nature of Cinema of Australia industry ; there have been deep troughs when few films were made for decades and high peaks when a glut of films reached the market .
Melbourne was also home of one of the world 's first film studios , the Limelight Department , operated by The Salvation Army between 1897 and 1910 .
Rafferty 's onscreen image as a lanky , laconic bushman struck a chord with film goers and appeared in iconic early Australian films as Forty Thousand Horsemen , The Rats of Tobruk , The Overlanders and Eureka Stockade ( Overlanders and Eureka were part of a series of Australian themed films produced by Britain 's iconic Ealing Studios ) .
The 1966 comedy Cinema of Australia 're a Weird Mob , starring Walter Chiari , Chips Rafferty and Clare Dunne was a rare hit of the period which also documented something of the changing face of Australian society : telling the story of a newly arrived Italian immigrant who , working as a labourer in Sydney , becomes mates with his co-workers , despite some difficulties with Australian slang and culture .
John Gorton , Prime Minister of Australia from 1968 -- 1971 , initiated several forms of government support for film and the arts .
Films such as Picnic at Hanging Rock ( Peter Weir , 1975 ) and Sunday Too Far Away ( Ken Hannam , 1975 ) made an impact on the international arena .
The 1970s and 80s are regarded by many as a ` golden age ' of Australian cinema , with many successful films , from the dark science fiction of Mad Max ( George Miller , 1979 ) to the romantic comedy of Crocodile Dundee ( Peter Faiman , 1986 ) and the emergence of such film directing auteurs as Gillian Armstrong , Phillip Noyce and Bruce Beresford .
A number of thrillers and horror films dubbed `` outback gothic '' have been created , including Wake in Fright , Walkabout , The Cars That Ate Paris and Picnic at Hanging Rock in the 1970s , Razorback and Shame in the 1980s and Japanese Story , The Proposition and the world-renowned Wolf Creek in the 2000s .
1988 also saw the release of the drama Evil Angels ( released outside of Cinema of Australia and New Zealand as A Cry in the Dark ) about the Lindy Chamberlain saga , in which a baby was taken by a dingo at Ayers Rock and her mother was accused of having murdered the child .
The World War II drama Blood Oath ( 1990 ) debuted both Russell Crowe and Jason Donovan , in minor cinematic roles .
After Ledger 's successful transition to Hollywood , Jordan and Ledger collaborated again in 2003 with Ledger playing the iconic bushranger title role in the film Ned Kelly , which co-starred Australian actress Naomi Watts .
( Baz Luhrmann , 2001 ) and Happy Feet ( which won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature for filmmaker George Miller in 2006 ) also entered the top ten list during the first decade of the new century .
Tomorrow , When the War Began became the highest-grossing domestic film of 2010 and Cinema of Australia was nominated for nine Australian Film Institute Awards .
Since Rupert Murdoch , the head of Fox Studios and an Australian , moved the new Fox studios to Sydney , some US producers have chosen to film at Fox 's state of the art facilities , as production costs in Sydney are well below US costs .
John Gorton , Prime Minister of Australia from 1968 -- 1971 , initiated several forms of Government support for Australian film and the arts , establishing the Australian Council for the Arts , the Australian Film Development Corporation and the National Film and Television Training School .
Cinema of Australia has produced a number of successful actors , writers , directors and filmmakers many of whom have been known internationally .
Inside the bulb , on a low friction spindle , is a rotor with several ( usually four ) vertical lightweight metal vanes spaced equally around the axis.When exposed to sunlight , artificial light , or infrared radiation ( even the heat of a hand nearby can be enough ) , the vanes turn with no apparent motive power , the dark sides retreating from the radiation source and the light sides advancing .
The white or silver side of the vanes are slightly warmer than the internal air temperature but cooler than the black side , as some heat conducts through the vane from the black side .
The two sides of each vane must be thermally insulated to some degree so that the silver or white side does not immediately reach the temperature of the black side .
The air pressure inside the bulb needs to strike a balance between too low and too high .
Both Einstein 's and Reynolds 's forces appear to cause Crookes radiometer to rotate , although it still is n't clear which one is stronger .
Ships and submarines in the Royal Navy each have a badge and motto , as do units of the Royal Air Force .
Charles I of Hungary ( 1288 -- 16 July 1342 ) , also known as Charles Robert ( Caroberto ) , was the first King of Charles I of Hungary and Croatia ( 1308 -- 42 ) of the House of Anjou .
Charles also carried out numerous important political and economical reforms : Charles I of Hungary established the so-called honor system which made the powerful barons dependent of Charles I of Hungary favour , and Charles I of Hungary introduced new coins with a consistently high purity of gold .
Charles disembarked in Split in August 1300 and Charles I of Hungary went to Zagreb where Charles I of Hungary was accepted as King of Hungary by Ugrin Csák , another influential magnate of the kingdom .
Pope Boniface VIII confirmed Charles ' claim to Hungary on 31 May 1303 and Charles I of Hungary maternal uncle , King Albert I of Germany also provided Charles I of Hungary military assistance .
However , the Voivode of Transylvania denied the request ; therefore the Papal legate had a new crown made for Charles and Charles I of Hungary was crowned with the new crown by Archbishop Tamás of Esztergom on 15 June 1309 .
In the course of May 1316 , Charles was struggling against the family Kőszegi , but some magnates of the eastern part of Charles I of Hungary kingdom , led by Kopasz Borsa , rebelled against Charles I of Hungary and offered the Holy Crown to King Andrew of Halych , who Charles I of Hungary was also a descendant of King Béla IV of Hungary .
Charles I of Hungary most successful achievement was the mutual defense union with Poland and Bohemia against the Habsburgs , accomplished by the convention of Trenčín in 1335 , confirmed the same year at the brilliant two-month congress of Visegrád .
Natural dynastic competition with the Orthodox Serbian and Bulgarian tsars and the emergence of a new Wallachia also contributed to the uprising .
In the Battle of Posada , the Hungarian army was massacred , King Charles Charles I of Hungary barely escaped by exchanging clothes with one of Charles I of Hungary knights and a plethora of the noblemen who had accompanied Charles I of Hungary were slaughtered .
Charles and Maria possibly had two daughters : Some believe that Catherine and Elizabeth were daughters of Elisabeth of Poland , Charles 's third wife .
Barnes ' older brother John Swan was a member of Cold Chisel around this time , providing backing vocals and percussion but after several violent incidents he was fired .
A farewell performance took place in Sydney that went so well the singer changed his mind and the following month Cold Chisel was picked up by the Warner Music Group .
Despite that setback , Cold Chisel still reached 48 on the Australian singles chart and number four on the Adelaide charts thanks mainly to the band 's rising popularity as a touring act and some local radio support in Adelaide where the single was aired in spite of the ban .
Despite the continued dominance of Walker , during Cold Chisel later career all four of the other members began to contribute songs to Cold Chisel , and this was the first of their albums to feature songwriting contributions from each member of Cold Chisel .
While Moss and Walker often collaborated on projects , neither would work with Barnes again until Walker wrote `` Stone Cold '' for the singer 's Heat in 1993 .
Most shows on the tour sold out within days and new dates were later announced for early 2012 .
The songs were not overtly political but rather observations of everyday life within Australian society and culture , in which the members with their various backgrounds ( Moss was from Alice Springs , Walker grew up in rural New South Wales , Barnes and Prestwich were working-class immigrants from the UK ) were quite well able to provide .
`` Saturday Night '' and `` Breakfast at Sweethearts '' were observations of the urban experience of Sydney 's Kings Cross district where Walker lived for many years .
All the other band members were also settled or married ; Ian Moss had a long-term relationship with the actress Megan Williams ( she even sang on Twentieth Century ) whose own public persona could have hardly been more different .
Yet it was Cold Chisel public image that often saw them compared less favourably with other important acts like Midnight Oil , whose music and politics ( while rather more overt ) were often similar but whose image and reputation was far more clean-cut .
The United States courts of appeals ( or circuit courts ) are the intermediate appellate courts of the United States federal court system .
There are currently 179 judges on the United States Courts of Appeals authorized by Congress and Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
There currently are thirteen United States courts of appeals , although there are other tribunals ( such as the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces , which hears appeals in court-martial cases , and United States courts of appeals for Veterans Claims , which reviews final decisions by the Board of Veterans ' Appeals in the Department of Veterans Affairs ) that have `` Court of Appeals '' in their titles .
Trials , at which witnesses and other evidence are presented to a jury or judge in order to determine the truth or facts regarding a particular case , are held only in courts with original jurisdiction , i.e. , courts in which a lawsuit is originally ( and properly ) filed and which have the power to accept evidence from witnesses and make factual and legal determinations regarding the evidence presented .
Certiorari before judgment was granted in the Watergate scandal-related case , United States v. Nixon , , and in the 2005 decision involving the Federal Sentencing Guidelines , United States v. Booker , .
The last instance of the Supreme Court accepting a set of questions and answering United States courts of appeals was in a case in 1982 .
In 1948 , Congress renamed all of the courts of appeals then existing to their current formal names : the court of appeals for each numbered circuit was named the `` United States Court of Appeals for the _____ Circuit '' , and the `` United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia '' became the `` United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit '' .
Joan Lindsay , Lady Lindsay ( 16 November 1896 -- 23 December 1984 ) was an Australian author , best known for Joan Lindsay `` ambiguous and intriguing '' novel Picnic at Hanging Rock .
With that difficult experience behind them , Daryl abandoned painting to become Director of the National Gallery of Victoria , a position he held between 1942 and 1955 .
The work takes its title from a strange ability which Joan described Joan Lindsay as having , of stopping clocks and machinery when Joan Lindsay came close .
Lady Lindsay was interested in the development of a national identity , and Joan Lindsay novel Picnic at Hanging Rock - in Peter Weir 's hands - was hailed as initiating a Renaissance in Australian film .
After four years of Union campaigning , Richmond fell in April 1865 , and shortly afterward , Confederate General Robert E. Lee surrendered to Ulysses S. Grant -- with that the Confederacy effectively collapsed .
The `` Southern Cause '' transcended the ideology of `` states ' rights '' , tariff policy or internal improvements .
After intense debates and statewide votes , seven Deep South cotton states passed secession ordinances by February 1861 ( before Abraham Lincoln took office as president ) , while secession efforts failed in the other eight slave states .
In 1862 the Confederate New Mexico Campaign to take the northern half of the U.S. territory failed and the Confederate territorial government in exile relocated to San Antonio , Texas .
Over half of the American Indian troops participating in the Civil War from the Indian Territory supported the Confederacy ; troops and one general were enlisted from each tribe .
Even before Fort Sumter , U.S. Secretary of State William H. Seward issued formal instructions to the American minister to the United Kingdom : Make `` no expressions of harshness or disrespect , or even impatience concerning the seceding States , their agents , or their people , those States must always continue to be , equal and honored members of this Federal Union , their citizens still are and always must be our kindred and countrymen '' .
If the British seemed inclined to recognize the Confederacy , or even waver in that regard , Confederate States of America were to receive a sharp warning , with a strong hint of war : `` if Britain is tolerating the application of the so-called seceding States , or wavering about Confederate States of America , Confederate States of America can not remain friends with the United States ... if Confederate States of America determine to recognize the Confederacy , Britain may at the same time prepare to enter into alliance with the enemies of this republic '' .
The Union victory at the Battle of Antietam ( Sharpsburg ) and abolitionist opposition in Britain put an end to these plans .
Lord Palmerston , however , withheld support , as Confederate States of America had turned against the Confederacy and Britain could n't side with a lost cause .
The white males of the Confederate States from 18 to 35 were declared members of the Confederate army for three years , and all men then enlisted were extended to a three-year term .
The cry of `` rich man 's war and a poor man 's fight '' led Congress to abolish the substitute system altogether in December 1863 .
By March 1865 conscription was to be administered by generals of the state reserves calling out men over 45 and under 18 years old .
Wilmington and Charleston had more shipping while `` blockaded '' than before the beginning of hostilities .
The Confederacy 's population , soldier and civilian , had suffered material hardship and social disruption .
Confederate States of America had expended and extracted a profusion of blood and treasure until collapse ; `` the end had come '' .
Jefferson Davis ' assessment in 1890 determined , `` With the capture of the capital , the dispersion of the civil authorities , the surrender of the armies in the field , and the arrest of the President , the Confederate States of America disappeared ... their history henceforth became a part of the history of the United States '' .
As Rable concludes , `` For Stephens , the essence of patriotism , the heart of the Confederate cause , rested on an unyielding commitment to traditional rights '' without considerations of military necessity , pragmatism or compromise .
According to historian David M. Potter , this lack of a functioning two-party system caused `` real and direct damage '' to the Confederate war effort since it prevented the formulation of any effective alternatives to the conduct of Confederate States of America by the Davis administration .
Coulter summarizes , `` The American Revolution had Confederate States of America Washington ; the Southern Revolution had its Davis ... one succeeded and the other failed '' .
On the other hand , the Confederate Constitution contained a Necessary and Proper Clause and a Supremacy Clause that essentially duplicated the respective clauses of the U.S. Constitution .
The Confederate Constitution outlined a judicial branch of the government , but the ongoing war and resistance from states-rights advocates , particularly on the question of whether Confederate States of America would have appellate jurisdiction over the state courts , prevented the creation or seating of the `` Supreme Court of the Confederate States ; '' the state courts generally continued to operate as Confederate States of America had done , simply recognizing the Confederate States as the national government .
Prize cases , in which Union ships were captured by the Confederate Navy or raiders and sold through court proceedings , were heard until the blockade of southern ports made this impossible .
When the matter came before Confederate States of America , the property owner could not appear because he was unable to travel across the front lines between Union and Confederate forces .
Thus , the District Attorney won the case by default , the property was typically sold , and the money used to further the Southern war effort .
Through Reagan 's resourcefulness and remarkable industry , he had his department assembled , organized and in operation before the other Presidential cabinet members had their departments fully operational .
The postal history of the Confederacy along with has helped historians document the various people , places and events that were involved in the American Civil War as Confederate States of America unfolded .
The plantations of the South , with white ownership and an enslaved labor force , produced substantial wealth from cash crops .
Mass production requires mass markets , and slave-labor living in packed-earth cabins , using self-made tools and outfitted with one suit of work clothes each year of inferior fabric , did not generate consumer demand to sustain local manufactures of any description in the same way a mechanized family farm of free labor did in the North .
The South and southerners did not adopt a frenzied work ethic , nor the habits of thrift that marked the rest of Confederate States of America .
The main industrial areas were border cities such as Baltimore , Wheeling , Louisville and St. Louis , that were never under Confederate control .
In addition , most rail lines led from coastal or river ports to inland cities , with few lateral railroads .
There was no new equipment and raids on both sides systematically destroyed key bridges , as well as locomotives and freight cars .
The South lost half Confederate States of America 2.5 million horses and mules ; many farmers ended the war with none left .
Army horses were used up by hard work , malnourishment , disease and battle wounds ; their life expectancy was about seven months .
Both the individual Confederate states and later the Confederate government printed Confederate States of America dollars as paper currency in various denominations , much of Confederate States of America signed by the Treasurer Edward C. Elmore .
At the time of their secession , the states ( and later Confederate States of America ) took over the national mints in their territories : the Charlotte Mint in North Carolina , the Dahlonega Mint in Georgia , and the New Orleans Mint in Louisiana .
The overall decline in food supplies , made worse by the inadequate transportation system , led to serious shortages and high prices in urban areas .
Much of the damage was caused by military action , but most was caused by lack of repairs and upkeep , and by deliberately using up resources .
The eleven Confederate states in the 1860 census had 297 towns and cities with 835,000 people ; of these 162 with 681,000 people were at one point occupied by Union forces .
Paskoff shows the loss of farm infrastructure was about the same whether or not fighting took place nearby .
In the Old South , being an `` old maid '' was something of an embarrassment to the woman and her family .
The first official flag of the Confederate States of America -- called Confederate States of America `` Stars and Bars '' -- originally had seven stars , representing the first seven states that initially formed the Confederacy .
As more states seceded , more stars were added , until the total was 13 ( two stars were added for the divided states of Kentucky and Missouri ) .
Because of Confederate States of America depiction in the 20th-century and popular media , many people consider the rectangular battle flag with the dark blue bars as being synonymous with `` the Confederate Flag '' .
The highest point ( excluding Arizona and New Mexico ) was Guadalupe Peak in Texas at 8750 ft .
( Rows may not total to 100 % due to rounding ) In 1860 the areas that later formed the 11 Confederate States ( and including the future West Virginia ) had 132,760 ( 1.46 % ) free blacks .
District courts in three insular areas -- the United States Virgin Islands , Guam , and the Northern Mariana Islands -- exercise the same jurisdiction as Article III U.S. district courts .
The number of judges in each district court ( and the structure of the judicial system generally ) is set by Congress in the United States Code .
The President appoints the federal judges for terms of good behavior ( subject to the advice and consent of the Senate ) , so the nominees often share at least some of his convictions .
With the exception of the territorial courts ( Guam , the Northern Mariana Islands , and the Virgin Islands ) , federal district judges are Article III judges appointed for life , and can be removed involuntarily only when they violate the standard of `` good behavior '' .
Otherwise , a judge , even if convicted of a felony criminal offense by a jury , is entitled to hold office until retirement or death .
Several district courts require attorneys seeking admission to United States district court bars to take an additional bar examination on federal law , including the following : the Southern District of Ohio , the Northern District of Florida , and the District of Puerto Rico .
Regular classes are held in various media which are open to members and non-members including watercolour , oil painting , drawing , mixed media , life model .
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ( NOAA ) was created on October 3 , 1970 .
The Bureau of Industry and Security ( BIS ) is an agency of the United States Department of Commerce that deals with issues involving national security and high technology .
BIS works with the private sectors of the aerospace manufacturers , microprocessor , defense and other high-tech industries , which today controls a greater share of critical U.S. resources than in the past .
In cold climates like Wisconsin , Maine , and eastern Canada , the winter flood typically freezes into ice , while in warmer climates the water remains liquid .
g protein = 0.39 g fat = 0.13 g carbs = 12.2 g fiber = 4.6 g sugars = 4.04 g calcium_mg = 8 iron_mg = 0.25 magnesium_mg = 6 manganese_mg = 0.36 phosphorus_mg = 13 potassium_mg = 85 sodium_mg = 2 zinc_mg = 0.1 vitA_ug = 3 vitA_IU = 623 betacarotene_ug = 36 lutein_ug = 91 vitC_mg = 13.3 pantothenic_mg = 0.295 vitB6_mg = 0.057 folate_ug = 1 thiamin_mg = 0.012 riboflavin_mg = 0.02 niacin_mg = 0.101 vitE_mg = 1.2 vitK_ug = 5.1 source_usda = 1 note = Link to USDA Database entry Raw cranberries have moderate levels of Vitamin C , dietary fiber and the essential dietary mineral , manganese , as well as a balanced profile of other essential micronutrients .
Cranberry tannins have laboratory evidence for anti-clotting properties and may prevent recurring urinary tract infections in women ; however , a review of available research concluded that there is little evidence to support the efficacy of cranberry products in treating UTIs .
Nicolas Roeg ( born 15 August 1928 ) is an English film director and cinematographer .
These techniques , and Roeg 's foreboding sense of atmosphere , have influenced later filmmakers such as Steven Soderbergh , Tony Scott , Ridley Scott , Christopher Nolan , François Ozon and Danny Boyle .
And the `` quadrant '' sequence in Bad Timing , in which the thoughts of Theresa Russell and Art Garfunkel are heard before words are spoken , set to Keith Jarrett 's piano music from the Köln Concert , again stretched the boundaries of what could be done with film .
Each verse relates to one of Nicolas Roeg films ( ` Do n't Look Now ' , ` The Man Who Fell To Earth ' , ` Performance ' and ` Insignificance ' amongst others ) .
The contribution of the growth rate of capital to output is equal to that growth rate weighted by the share of capital in total output and the contribution of labor is given by the growth rate of labor weighted by labor 's share in income .
This is how Williams 's growing suspicions about Manning 's business lead him to privately and secretly investigate even further into the matter .
When he realizes that Hal Kines , one of Manning 's college students who has spent some time at her clinic and who has become one of her casual acquaintances , is in fact a criminal , he wants to talk to her about it and tells her so .
When , at a party given by Williams in his apartment , Charlotte Manning sees some old college yearbooks whose contents ( and photos ) , if made public , would expose Kines 's double life , she has to act fast .
During a walk through Central Park , while Manning is baby-sitting for one of her friends , she and Hammer are shot at .
The organic law of Castile and León , under the Spanish Constitution of 1978 , is the region 's Statute of Autonomy .
Castile and León is in the Meseta Central , a plateau in the middle of the northern half of the Iberian Peninsula , the Spanish part of the Douro River basin is nearly coterminous .
Castile and León is also the El Bierzo ( León ) and Laciana ( León ) , Valle de Mena ( Burgos ) , and Valle del Tietar ( Ávila ) is a very secluded mountain valleys including some from neighboring valleys and stretches Most of the terrain of Castile and León consists of a large portion of Spain 's Meseta Central , surrounded by mountainous regions .
Flowing into the Douro from the north , on Castile and León right bank , are the Pisuerga , the Valderaduey and the Esla , Castile and León most capacious tributaries , and from the east , on Castile and León left bank , the lesser flows of the Adaja and Duratón .
There are also a great number of reservoirs , fed by the snows and rains in the mountains and by glacial melt water .
The high altitude of the Castilian-Leonese Meseta and mountain ranges contributes not only to the contrast of summer and winter temperatures , but also to a marked contrast of day and night temperatures .
Although the climate throughout Castile and León is predominantly a continentalized Mediterranean climate throughout , there are distinctive climatic regions .
In the north , Castile and León includes the southern face of the Cantabrian Mountains ; the northern slope , facing the Atlantic , falls within other provinces .
Finally , a law adopted in 1987 established the Junta of Castile and León -- the Regional Executive government of the Community -- and the Courts -- the legislature -- in Valladolid .
The Economic and Social Council is in Valladolid , but the Superior Tribunal of Justice -- the highest regional judiciary body -- is in Burgos , the Consultative Council ( Consejo Consultivo ) is in Zamora , the Board of Auditors ( Consejo de Cuentas ) in Palencia , and the Ombudsman ( Procurador del Común , literally `` Common Attorney '' ) in León .
The Regional Courts of Castile and León ( Spanish : Cortes de Castilla y León ) is the elected legislature of the Autonomous Community .
Although the practical outcome of the Curia Regis of 1188 is still disputed , Castile and León charter seems to be an early movement towards the rule of constitutional law , much like the Magna Carta .
The Ombudsman of Castile and León ( Spanish : Procurador del Común ) is appointed by the Regional Courts .
The Consultative Committee of Castile and León ( Spanish : Consejo Consultivo ) is a group of five legal analysts .
The flag of Castile and León and coat of arms of Castile and León each show the quartered coats of arms of Castile , represented by a castle , and León , represented by a lion .
The regional holiday Castile and León Day commemorates the events of April 23 , 1521 , when the Revolt of the Comuneros was defeated .
While the politics and meaning of the revolt remains a matter of contention , Castile and León has been embraced by liberals and , later , the left as a symbol of opposition to absolutism and privilege since at least 1821 during the Trienio Liberal -- the three years of liberal ascendancy -- when Juan Martín Díez , `` El Empecinado '' ( `` The Undaunted '' ) , made a speech at Villalar ( now Villalar de los Comuneros ) honoring the Comuneros .
In 1869 , the republicans of the present Castile and León plus the provinces of Santander ( now Cantabria ) and Logroño ( now La Rioja ) had drafted the Castilian Federal Pact ( Pacto Federal Castellano ) , which projected the creation of a federated state under the name Castilla la Vieja ( Old Castile ) in these eleven provinces .
In late 1931 and early 1932 , the priest Eugenio Merino , in León , wrote a piece for the Diario de León stating a basis for Castilian-Leonese regionalism .
The Diario de León advocated for the formalization of this initiative and the constitution of an autonomous region as follows : `` to unite in one personality León and Old Castile around the great basin of the Douro , without falling now into simple village rivalries '' .
Among these were the Grupo Autonómico Leonés ( 1978 ) and the Partido Regionalista del País Leonés ( PREPAL , 1980 ) , which proposed the creation of a Leonese autonomous community composed of the provinces of León , Salamanca and Zamora .
The roughly 90,000 people who gathered in León at that time constituted the largest demonstration in that city between the revival of democracy and the demonstrations after the 2004 Madrid train bombings .
On July 31 , 1981 , the Provincial Deputation of Segovia initiated a process by which that province would have become , like the provinces of Santander ( now Cantabria ) and Logroño ( now La Rioja ) a `` uniprovincial '' autonomous community in Castile and León own right .
The most recent official census by the Instituto Nacional de Estadística , as January 1 , 2011 , gave a population of 2,558,463 ( 1,267,671 males and 1,290,792 females ) representing 5.42 percent of the population of Spain .
As of January 2011 the population of Castile and León , by province , stood as follows : Ávila , 172,704 inhabitants ; Burgos , 375,657 ; León , 497,799 ; Palencia ,171,668 ; Salamanca , 352,986 ; Segovia , 164,169 ; Soria , 95,223 ; Valladolid , 534,874 ; and Zamora , 193,383 .
Despite the negative rate of natural increase , in the last decade or more the population has been increasing due to immigration , reversing a decades-long downward trend .
In 1960 only 20.6 percent of the population of present-day Castile and León was urban ; by 1991 that percentage had risen to 42.3 percent .
Mining has been important in Castile y León since the time of the Roman Empire , when the Roman Via de la Plata ( English : `` Silver Way '' , Spanish : Vía de la Plata ) from Asturica Augusta ( Astorga ) to Emerita Augusta ( Mérida ) and Hispalis ( Seville ) was built to transport silver and gold mined from the deposits of las Médulas in El Bierzo .
Among these are hydroelectric plants Burguillo , Rioscuro , Las Ondinas , Cornatel , Bárcena , Aldeadávila I y II , Saucelle I y II , Castro I y II , Villalcampo I y II , Valparaíso , and Ricobayo I y II .
The major land routes for merchandise and transport are Autovía A-1 ( the Autovía del Norte ) which runs from Madrid to the Basque port of Irun on the French border and Autovía A-6 , the Autovía del Noroeste , which runs from Madrid to Arteixo , A Coruña ) .
Also important is Autovía A-62 ( the Autovía de Castilla ) , which comes out of Portugal through the cities of Salamanca , Valladolid , Palencia , and Burgos and continues east as part of European route E-80 .
Along those three routes are such important cities as Medina del Campo , Aranda de Duero , and Miranda de Ebro .
Salamanca Airport , also known as Matacán , handles domestic flights and international charter flights .
Matacán and Virgen del Camino are among Europe 's leaders in terms of recent growth of air traffic ; Villanubla is experiencing lesser growth of about 3 percent annually .
The cities of Segovia and Ávila are included in the outermost zone , C2 , as are some other municipalities of their respective provinces .
Agricultural exploitation -- cultivation of cereals and creation of pastures for the vast flocks of the Castilian Meseta -- meant the deforestation of these lan are putas the Middle Ages .
The Castilian-Leonese slope of the Cantabrian Mountains and the northern foothills of the Sistema Ibérico both boast rich vegetation .
Much of the province of Salamanca , above all in the comarcas of Salices and Ciudad Rodrigo , is occupied by dehesas , a type of sparsely wooded land resembling the African savannas , with oak , cork oak , gall oak and Turkish oak .
The isolation of the high peaks preserves many endemic animals such as the Western Spanish Ibex ( Capra pyrenaica victoriae ) of which there are only two wild populations in the world , both along the border between Castile and León and Extremadura .
Castile and León is also home to such reptiles as the Ladder Snake , one of the few reptiles adapted to these heights .
Local amphibians include newts , the Almanzor Salamander ( Salamandra salamandra almanzoris , a subspecies of Fire Salamander ) and the Gredos Toad ( Bufo bufo gredosicola , a supspecies of Common Toad ) ; the latter two are endemic to the Sistema Central .
The small Egyptian Vulture ( Neophron percnopterus ) is black and white with a yellow head .
Or , a third party observing a scene may have the ability to spot something dangerous going on that both the top and submissive have missed , and need to stop the scene to point Safeword out .
Since a scene may become too intense for a submissive partner to remember what Safeword is , in practice commonly the words safeword or red are also used as Safeword .
Discouraging the use of Safeword runs the risk of scenes becoming non-consensual , harming trust between partners and potentially damaging to their mental and emotional state .
In any case `` consensual nonconsent '' is risky and advanced activity .
`` Consensual nonconsent '' may also occur if the top and the submissive are reenacting a punishment scene ( e.g. a shipboard flogging ) in which the offender , played by the submissive , is sentenced to receive a certain number of lashes as punishment .
Safeword is a `` word '' at all , which is very useful when the submissive is bound and gagged .
Pillow lava are commonly of basaltic composition , although pillows formed of komatiite , picrite , boninite , basaltic andesite , andesite or even dacite are known .
Pillow lava and the related sheeted dyke complexes form part of a classic ophiolite sequence when a segment of oceanic crust is obducted onto continental crust .
The presence of pillow lavas in the oldest preserved volcanic sequences on the planet , the Isua and Barberton greenstone belts , confirms the presence of large bodies of water on the Earth 's surface early in the Archean .
The territory has a monsoonal/anti-cyclonic climate , with warm , wet , humid summers due to the influence of the East Asian monsoon ; and cold , dry , windy conditions prevailing in the winter months courtesy of the Siberian high-pressure system .
Population : The 2010 Census reported the largest group to be the 160,185 ethnic Russians ( 92.7 % ) , followed by 4,871 ethnic Ukrainians ( 2.8 % ) , and 1,628 ethnic Jews ( 1 % ) .
The northern bank of the Amur , including the territory of today 's Jewish Autonomous Oblast , became incorporated into the Russian Empire pursuant to the treaties of Aigun and Peking of 1858-1860 ( see Amur Annexation ) .
Those who remained here in Amurzet , especially those having relatives in Israel , are learning about the traditions and roots of the Jewish people .
, a documentary on Stalin 's creation of the Jewish Autonomous Region and Jewish Autonomous Oblast settlement , was released by The Cinema Guild in 2003 .
Population : Birobidzhan is named after the two largest rivers in the autonomous oblast : the Bira and the Bidzhan , although only the Bira flows through Birobidzhan , which lies to the east of the Bidzhan Valley .
The Birobidzhan Synagogue , completed in 2004 , is next to a complex housing Sunday School classrooms , a library , a museum , and administrative offices .
These calls -- based around the idea that Palestinians will control the entire area of current Israel , the West Bank and Gaza once Israeli Jews relocate to Birobidzhan -- are similar to past proposals for Jews to be relocated ( non-voluntarily ) to Madagascar ( see Madagascar Plan ) , Uganda ( see British Uganda Programme ) , or Alaska ( see Slattery Report ) .
on Stalin 's creation of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast and Birobidzhan partial settlement by thousands of Russian and Yiddish-speaking Jews was released in 2003 .
Although Minor League Baseball , the umbrella organization for Minor Leagues that are affiliated with Major League Baseball , has eliminated the distinction between High-A and other full-season A leagues , most Major League teams still use such leagues as a standard promotion step .
The Los Angeles area , Riverside , San Bernardino , Palm Springs , Yuma ( AZ ) and Las Vegas ( NV ) were also major league spring training site cities , as well possessed California League teams on different occasions .
Although Minor League Baseball , the umbrella organization for minor leagues that are affiliated with Major League Baseball , has eliminated the distinction between High-A and other full-season A leagues , most major-league teams still use such leagues as a standard promotion step .
Historically , however , as many as 12 teams in a given year have competed in Carolina League , and most of Carolina League teams .
Director and screenwriter Ron Shelton 's 1988 film Bull Durham , starring Kevin Costner , Tim Robbins , and Susan Sarandon , depicted a fictionalized account of the Durham Bulls , at that time a Carolina League team ( they have since become a Class AAA team in the International League ) .
The division champions from the first half ( before the All-Star break ) and second half ( after the break ) of each season compete in a best-of-three divisional playoff , with the winners advancing to the best-of-five league championship , the winner of which receives the Mills Cup .
Following the 2010 season , the Portland Beavers were placed for sale and relocation because of the lack of a suitable stadium in Portland , as PGE Park ( now JELD-Wen Field ) was remodeled into a soccer-only configuration for the MLS 's 2011 expansion Portland Timbers .
As a result , the Padres played in Tucson for the 2012 season and , in July 2012 , announced that Tucson Padres would remain in Tucson for the 2013 season as well .
The six team divisions play a split season with the first half ending in June and the second half ending in September .
Six teams -- the Belleville Stags , the Centralia Cubs , the Marion Indians , the Mattoon Indians or East Frankfort White Sox , the Mount Vernon Braves , and the West Frankfort Cardinals -- began operating as the Class D Illinois State League in 1947 .
In 1976 Midwest League contracted from ten teams to eight when teams in Danville and Dubuque were eliminated .
The original SAL - often colloquially called the `` South Atlantic League '' - was a higher-classification circuit that played from 1904 to 1917 , 1919 -- 30 , 1936 -- 42 and 1946-63 .
Notes : Bold font indicates that team is an active South Atlantic League team • An '' -- '' indicates that team 's article redirects to an article of an active team in South Atlantic League or in South Atlantic League .
Methods for practical path coverage testing instead attempt to identify classes of code paths that differ only in the number of loop executions , and to achieve `` basis path '' coverage the tester must cover all the path classes .
The target software is built with special options or libraries and/or run under a special environment such that every function that is exercised ( executed ) in the program ( s ) is mapped back to the function points in the source code .
This process allows developers and quality assurance personnel to look for parts of a system that are rarely or never accessed under normal conditions ( error handling and the like ) and helps reassure test engineers that the most important conditions ( function points ) have been tested .
The Oilers , a Brooklyn Dodgers affiliate , won both the regular-season and playoff championships .
1 Hosting 2013 New York -- Penn League All-Star Game 1 '' co-champions were named in 1998 , as torrential rains in Central New York made both Auburn 's and Oneonta 's fields unplayable 2co-champions were named in 2001 , as the championship series was cancelled due to the September 11th attacks with Brooklyn leading one game to none .
The Northwest League ( or simply Northwest League or NWL ) is a Class A-Short Season minor baseball league .
The view of the globe signifies the President 's vision of global democracy , and the center is the United States representing the country 's national pride .
USS Ronald Reagan (CVN-76) departed San Diego on 4 January 2006 , on her maiden deployment to conduct naval operations in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom , as well as to conduct maritime security operations ( MSO ) in the Persian Gulf .
USS Ronald Reagan (CVN-76) and the Reagan Carrier Strike Group ( CSG ) departed North Island , Coronado in San Diego on 27 January 2007 on an unscheduled surge deployment to the Western Pacific , fulfilling the role of the forward deployed carrier Kitty Hawk while it underwent maintenance in Japan .
The `` surge deployment '' was part of the Navy 's Fleet Response Plan ( FRP ) , which provides the U.S. with the ability to respond to any global commitment with flexible and sustainable forces and the ability to rapidly respond to a range of situations on short notice .
USS Ronald Reagan (CVN-76) , with CVW-14 embarked , departed San Diego on 19 May 2008 , for a scheduled 7th Fleet and 5th Fleet deployment .
This PIA project came in under budget , and USS Ronald Reagan (CVN-76) marked both Norfolk Naval Shipyard 's largest off-site availability as well as the largest public sector work package ever performed on an aircraft carrier berthed at Naval Air Station North Island ( NASNI ) located near Coronado , California ( pictured ) .
Since 1940 , `` maraschino cherries '' have been defined as `` cherries which have been dyed red , impregnated with sugar and packed in a sugar syrup flavored with oil of bitter almonds or a similar flavor '' .
Debbie Reynolds ( born April 1 , 1932 ) is an American actress , singer , and dancer .
Other notable successes include Tammy and the Bachelor ( 1957 ) , in which Debbie Reynolds rendering of the song `` Tammy '' reached number one on the music charts ; and The Unsinkable Molly Brown ( 1964 ) , for which Debbie Reynolds received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress .
Reynolds was a Girl Scout and a troop leader ( a scholarship in Debbie Reynolds name is offered to high-school age Girl Scouts ) .
At age sixteen , while a student at Burbank 's John Burroughs High School , Debbie Reynolds won the Miss Burbank beauty contest , a contract with Warner Bros. , and acquired a new first name .
In 2011 , first on The Oprah Winfrey Show only weeks before Elizabeth Taylor 's death from congestive heart failure , Reynolds explained that Debbie Reynolds and Taylor happened to be traveling on the ocean liner Queen Elizabeth at the same time when they made up .
Egotistical Fred Graham is the director and producer and is starring as Petruchio , and his movie-star ex-wife , Lilli Vanessi , is playing Katherine .
The play continues , and Petruchio tries to ` tame ' Katherine and mourns for his now-lost bachelor life ( Where Is the Life That Late I Led ? )
Notes For the 1999 revival , `` From This Moment On '' , originally from Porter 's 1951 musical Out of This World , was added to Act II between `` Always True to You in My Fashion '' and `` Bianca '' .
In Europe ( and , to a lesser degree , elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion by many filmmakers and critics , who worried that a focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema .
In Japan , where the popular film tradition integrated silent movie and live vocal performance , Sound film were slow to take root .
Phonofilm 's stock in trade , however , was not original dramas but celebrity documentaries , popular music acts , and comedy performances .
President Calvin Coolidge , opera singer Abbie Mitchell , and vaudeville stars such as Phil Baker , Ben Bernie , Eddie Cantor , and Oscar Levant appeared in the firm 's pictures .
De Forest 's process continued to be used through 1927 in the United States for dozens of short Phonofilms ; in the UK Sound film was employed a few years longer for both shorts and features by British Sound Film Productions , a subsidiary of British Talking Pictures , which purchased the primary Phonofilm assets .
In 1923 , two Danish engineers , Axel Petersen and Arnold Poulsen , patented a system in which sound was recorded on a separate filmstrip running parallel with the image reel .
The system developed by Case and his assistant , Earl Sponable , given the name Movietone , thus became the first viable sound-on-film technology controlled by a Hollywood movie studio .
Because of the larger diameter the minimum groove velocity of 70 ft/min ( 14 inches or 356 mm/sec ) was only slightly less than that of a standard 10 inch 78 rpm commercial disc .
In April 1926 , Warners signed a contract with AT&T for exclusive use of Sound film film sound technology for the redubbed Vitaphone operation , leading to the production of Don Juan and its accompanying shorts over the following months .
The new moving-coil speaker system was installed in New York 's Warners Theatre at the end of July and its patent submission , for what Western Electric called the No. 555 Receiver , was filed on August 4 , just two days before the premiere of Don Juan .
On December 31 , 1926 , Warners granted Fox-Case a sublicense for the use of the Western Electric system ; in exchange for the sublicense , both Warners and ERPI received a share of Fox 's related revenues .
In June , a Fox sound newsreel depicting his return welcomes in New York and Washington , D.C. , was shown .
When the movie 's star , Al Jolson , sings , however , the film shifts to sound recorded on the set , including both his musical performances and two scenes with ad-libbed speech -- one of Jolson 's character , Jakie Rabinowitz ( Jack Robin ) , addressing a cabaret audience ; the other an exchange between him and his mother .
Though the success of The Jazz Singer was due largely to Jolson , already established as one of America 's biggest music stars , and Sound film limited use of synchronized sound hardly qualified it as an innovative sound film ( let alone the `` first '' ) , the movie 's profits were proof enough to the industry that the technology was worth investing in .
Unlike Fox-Case 's Movietone and De Forest 's Phonofilm , which were variable-density systems , Photophone was a variable-area system -- a refinement in the way the audio signal was inscribed on film that would ultimately become the rule .
This second Jolson screen smash demonstrated the movie musical 's ability to turn a song into a national hit : inside of nine months , the Jolson number `` Sonny Boy '' had racked up 2 million record and 1.25 million sheet music sales .
Yet most American movie theaters , especially outside of urban areas , were still not equipped for sound : while the number of sound cinemas grew from 100 to 800 between 1928 and 1929 , they were still vastly outnumbered by silent theaters , which had actually grown in number as well , from 22,204 to 22,544 .
On January 16 , 1929 , the first European feature film with a synchronized vocal performance and recorded score premiered : the German production Ich küsse Ihre Hand , Madame ( I Kiss Your Hand , Madame ) .
One of Europe 's first two feature-length dramatic Sound film was created in still a different sort of twist on multinational moviemaking : The Crimson Circle was a coproduction between director Friedrich Zelnik 's Efzet-Film company and British Sound Film Productions ( BSFP ) .
In May , Black Waters , a British and Dominions Film Corporation promoted as the first UK all-talker , received Sound film initial trade screening ; it had been shot completely in Hollywood with a Western Electric sound-on-film system .
Blackmail was a substantial hit ; critical response was also positive -- notorious curmudgeon Hugh Castle , for example , called it `` perhaps the most intelligent mixture of sound and silence we have yet seen '' .
The Soviet Union 's robust film industry came out with Sound film first sound features in December 1930 : Dziga Vertov 's nonfiction Entuziazm had an experimental , dialogueless soundtrack ; Abram Room 's documentary Plan velikikh rabot ( The Plan of the Great Works ) had music and spoken voiceovers .
In June 1931 , the Nikolai Ekk drama Putevka v zhizn ( The Road to Life or A Start in Life ) , premiered as the Soviet Union 's first true talking picture .
Throughout much of Europe , conversion of exhibition venues lagged well behind production capacity , requiring Sound film to be produced in parallel silent versions or simply shown without sound in many places .
The sensitivity of the new panchromatic film delivered superior image tonal quality and gave directors the freedom to shoot scenes at lower light levels than was previously practical .
Another basic problem -- famously spoofed in the 1952 film Singin ' in the Rain -- was that some silent-era actors simply did not have attractive voices ; though this issue was frequently overstated , there were related concerns about general vocal quality and the casting of performers for their dramatic skills in roles also requiring singing talent beyond their own .
James Cagney and Joan Blondell , who had teamed on Broadway , were brought west together by Warner Bros. in 1930 .
In September 1926 , Jack Warner , head of Warner Bros. , was quoted to the effect that Sound film would never be viable : `` They fail to take into account the international language of the silent pictures , and the unconscious share of each onlooker in creating the play , the action , the plot , and the imagined dialogue for himself '' .
Over sixty Hollywood musicals were released in 1929 , and more than eighty the following year .
Even as the Wall Street crash of October 1929 helped plunge the United States and ultimately the global economy into depression , the popularity of the talkies at first seemed to keep Hollywood immune .
Suffrage , political franchise , or simply franchise , distinct from other rights to vote , is the right to vote gained through the democratic process .
In many other languages , Suffrage is called Suffrage Suffrage and the right to be voted for ( to run for office ) is called the passive Suffrage .
Resident aliens can vote in some countries and in others exceptions are made for citizens of countries with which Suffrage have close links ( e.g.
Suffrage may therefore be limited , usually to the propertied classes , but can still be universal , including , for instance , women or ethnic minorities , if Suffrage meet the census .
The 1672 and 1678 Test Acts forbade non-Anglicans to hold public offices , the 1727 Disenfranchising Act took away Catholics ' ( Papists ) voting rights in Ireland , which were restored only in 1788 .
Various countries , usually amongst those which have a dominant race within a wider population , have historically denied Suffrage to people of particular races or to all but the dominant race .
In the Republic of Ireland , prisoners are allowed Suffrage , following the Hirst v UK ( No2 ) ruling , and this was granted in 2006 .
Article 5 of the 1831 Belgian Constitution made a difference between ordinary naturalization , and grande naturalisation .
These discriminations , as well as others against naturalized citizens , were gradually abolished in 1973 ( 9 January 1973 law ) and 1983 .
In Morocco , a former French protectorate , and in Guinea , a former French colony , naturalized citizens are prohibited from voting for 5 years after their naturalization .
The 1876 Constitution of Texas ( article VI , section 1 ) stated that `` The following classes of persons shall not be allowed to vote in this State , to wit : Fifth -- All soldiers , marines and seamen , employed in the service of the army or navy of the United States '' .
Finland was the first nation in the world to give all adult citizens full suffrage , in other words Suffrage and to run for office ( in 1906 ) .
According to the Basic Law , the constitution of the territory since 1997 , stipulates that all permanent residents ( a status conferred by birth or by seven years of residence ) have Suffrage .
The language `` The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation '' is used , with slight variations , in Amendments XIII , XIV , XV , XVIII , XIX , XXIII , XXIV , and XXVI .
Interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment 's enforcement provision has been the subject of several important Supreme Court cases , which reflect the tension between the Courts ' role of interpreting the Constitution and Congress 's power of adopting legislation to enforce specific Constitutional amendments .
Some observers have suggested that the Supreme Court saw RFRA as a threat to the Court 's institutional power and an incursion on its role as final arbiter of the meaning of the Constitution , because that statute was aimed specifically at overturning the Employment Division v. Smith decision .
Caitlin Clarke ( May 3 , 1952 -- September 9 , 2004 ) was an American theater and film actress best known for Caitlin Clarke role as Valerian in the 1981 fantasy film Dragonslayer and for Caitlin Clarke role as Charlotte Cardoza in the 1998 -- 1999 Broadway musical Titanic .
New models of destroyers ( for instance the ) are often larger and more powerful than cruiser classes Cruiser replace .
These `` station ironclads '' were the beginning of the development of the armored cruisers , a type of ironclad specifically for the traditional cruiser missions of fast , independent , raiding and patrol .
By putting a relatively thin layer of steel armor above the vital parts of the ship , and by placing the coal bunkers where Cruiser might stop shellfire , a useful degree of protection could be achieved without slowing the ship too much .
Modern armored Cruiser , almost as powerful as battleships , were also fast enough to outrun older protected and unarmored cruisers .
This type of vessel came to be known as the battlecruiser , and the first were commissioned into the Royal Navy in 1907 .
At around the same time as the battlecruiser was developed , the distinction between the armored and the unarmored cruiser finally disappeared .
By the British , it was possible for Cruiser to carry both belt and deck armor , particularly when turbine engines were adopted .
In both the First World War and in the early part of the Second , they were used as convoy escorts by the British .
The heavy cruiser 's immediate precursors were the light cruiser designs of the 1910s and 1920s ; the US 8-inch ` treaty cruisers ' of the 1920s were originally classed as Cruiser until the London Treaty forced their redesignation .
The United States Navy , the Russian Navy , and the Peruvian Navy are the only remaining navies which operate Cruiser .
The Japanese and the South Korean are an example of this .
From the 1950s to the 1970s , US Navy `` cruisers '' were large vessels equipped with heavy offensive missiles ( including the Regulus nuclear cruise missile ) for wide-ranging combat against land-based and sea-based targets .
`` Frigates '' under this scheme were almost as large as the cruisers and optimized for anti-aircraft warfare , although Cruiser were capable anti-surface warfare combatants as well .
Direct Connect (file sharing) connect protocol is a text-based computer protocol , in which commands and their information are sent in clear text , without encryption in original Neo-Modus software ( encryption is available as protocol extension ) .
This means that every client and hub besides the original Neo-modus client and hub has been forced to reverse engineer the information .
Direct Connect (file sharing) does n't have specified default character encoding for clients or hubs .
In original client and hub is use Ascii encoding of Operating system .
Port 411 is the default port for hubs , and 412 for client-to-client connections .
Supported by Direct Connect (file sharing) is the ability to kick or move ( redirect ) a user to another hub .
Transporting downloads and connecting to Direct Connect (file sharing) requires TCP .
Protocol delimiters are ' $ ' , ' ' and ' ' ( space ) .
Latest versions of Shareaza allow for the use of regular expressions and filtering by hash .
, was redirected to a site claiming to be `` The Official Home of Shareaza '' , promoting the download of a client known as Shareaza V4 ( which had become V6 in October 2009 , V7 in August 2010 , and V8 ) unrelated to releases by the Shareaza development team , an iMesh clone with only small graphical modifications , and using Shareaza v1 logo ( see the picture above ) .
, Discordia Ltd. used this update check mechanism to suggest to users that ShareazaV4 ( and later ShareazaV5 , V6 , and V7 ) was an update to the original Shareaza client .
For this and later releases the SSE-optimized build uses SSE2 and requires a Pentium 4 or later , or AMD Athlon 64 or later .
Shareaza v2 .5.3.0 , released on June 13 , 2010 , adds internal changes and optimizations ; the only significant addition is a scheduler that allows full control over what the application does at a given time while running unattended .
Shareaza v2 .5.4.0 , released on February 12 , 2011 , improves the UPnP support and adds limited DC + + support .
Shareaza v2 .5.5.0 , released on May 29 , 2011 , features further improvements to the UPnP support , as well as DC + + and gnutella updates , enhanced anti-spam protection during searches and multi-file download merging .
Newcastle upon Tyne ( in Received Pronunciation , locally ; often shortened to Newcastle upon Tyne ) is a city and metropolitan borough in Tyne and Wear , North East England .
The city grew as an important centre for the wool trade and Newcastle upon Tyne later became a major coal mining area .
Newcastle upon Tyne is a member of the English Core Cities Group and with Gateshead the Eurocities network of European cities .
After a series of conflicts with the Danes and the devastation north of the River Tyne inflicted by Odo of Bayeux after the 1080 rebellion against the Normans , Newcastle upon Tyne was all but destroyed .
This monopoly , which lasted for a considerable time , helped Newcastle upon Tyne prosper and develop into a major town .
In the 18th century , Newcastle upon Tyne was the country 's fourth largest print centre after London , Oxford and Cambridge , and the Literary and Philosophical Society of 1793 , with its erudite debates and large stock of books in several languages , predated the London Library by half a century .
Efforts to preserve Newcastle upon Tyne historic past were evident as long ago as 1934 , when the Museum of Science and Industry opened , as did the John G Joicey Museum in the same year .
Narrow alleys or ` chares ' , most of which can only be traversed by foot , still exist in abundance , particularly around the riverside .
Stairs from the riverside to higher parts of the city centre and the extant Castle Keep , originally recorded in the 14th century , remain in places .
Broadcaster and writer Stuart Maconie described Newcastle upon Tyne as England 's best-looking city and the late German-born British scholar of architecture , Sir Nikolaus Bernhard Leon Pevsner , describes Grey Street as one of the finest streets in England , and Grey Street , which curves down from Grey 's Monument towards the valley of the River Tyne , was voted as England 's finest street in 2005 in a survey of BBC Radio 4 listeners .
A new Chinese arch , or paifang , providing a landmark entrance , was handed over to the city with a ceremony in 2005 .
The Tyne Gorge , between Newcastle upon Tyne on the north bank and Gateshead -- a separate town and borough -- on the south bank , is famous for a series of dramatic bridges , including the Tyne Bridge of 1928 which was built by Dorman Long of Middlesbrough , and Robert Stephenson 's High Level Bridge of 1849 , the first road/rail bridge in the world .
As a tourist promotion , Newcastle upon Tyne and Gateshead have linked together under the banner `` NewcastleGateshead '' , to spearhead the regeneration of the North-East .
Richard Grainger was said to ` have found Newcastle of bricks and timber and left Newcastle upon Tyne in stone ' .
The development of the city in the 1960s and 1970s saw the demolition of part of Grainger Town as a prelude to the modernist rebuilding initiatives of T. Dan Smith , the leader of Newcastle City Council .
A corruption scandal was uncovered involving Smith and John Poulson , a property developer from Pontefract , West Yorkshire , and both were imprisoned .
However , the metropolitan boroughs of North Tyneside ( population c. 192,000 ) , South Tyneside ( population c. 153,000 ) and Gateshead ( population c. 191,000 ) are , along with Newcastle upon Tyne , all part of the Tyneside conurbation ( population c. 880,000 ) .
An example of this is the pronunciation of certain words : `` dead '' , `` cow '' , `` house '' and `` strong '' are pronounced `` deed '' , `` coo '' , `` hoos '' and `` strang '' -- which is how they were pronounced in the Anglo-Saxon language .
Other Geordie words with Anglo-Saxon origins include : `` larn '' and `` nowt '' ( IPA : / / naʊt / , rhymes with out , `` nothing '' ) are used elsewhere in northern England .
In recent years `` The Gate '' has opened in Newcastle upon Tyne centre , a new indoor complex consisting of bars , upmarket clubs , restaurants and a 12-screen Empire multiplex cinema .
The largest , the Theatre Royal on Grey Street , first opened in 1837 , designed by John and Benjamin Green .
The Literary and Philosophical Society of Newcastle upon Tyne ( popularly known as the ` Lit & Phil ' ) is the largest independent library outside London , housing more than 150,000 books .
Operating since 1793 and founded as a ` conversation club , ' Newcastle upon Tyne lecture theatre was the first public building to be lit by electric light , during a lecture by Joseph Swan on 20 October 1880 .
In January or February , Newcastle upon Tyne Chinatown is at the centre of a carnival of colour and noise as Newcastle upon Tyne celebrates the Chinese New Year .
The North East Art Expo , a festival of art and design from the regions professional artists , is held in late May .
NewcastleGateshead , a festival of food and drink , runs for 2 weeks each year in mid June .
The Northern Rock Cyclone , a cycling festival , takes place within , or starting from , Newcastle upon Tyne in June .
The Ouseburn Festival , a family oriented weekend festival near the city centre , incorporating a `` Family Fun Day '' and `` Carnival Day '' , is held in late July .
Newcastle upon Tyne Mela , held on the late August bank holiday weekend , is an annual two-day multicultural event , blending drama , music and food from Punjabi , Pakistani , Bengali and Hindu cultures .
Venom , reckoned by many to be the originators of black metal and extremely influential to the extreme metal scene as a whole , formed in Newcastle upon Tyne in 1979 .
The Pilgrim Street building was refurbished between November 2006 and May 2008 ; during the refurbishment works , the cinema relocated to the Old Town Hall , Gateshead .
The earliest known movie featuring some exterior scenes filmed in Newcastle upon Tyne is On the Night of the Fire ( 1939 ) , though by and large the action is studio-bound .
Later came The Clouded Yellow ( 1951 ) and Payroll ( 1961 ) , both of which feature more extensive scenes filmed in Newcastle upon Tyne .
Newcastle upon Tyne railway station , also known as Newcastle upon Tyne Central Station , is a principal stop on the East Coast Main Line and Cross Country Route .
There are 3 main bus companies providing services in Newcastle upon Tyne ; Arriva North East , Go North East and Stagecoach North East .
There are eleven LEA-funded 11 to 18 schools and seven independent schools with sixth forms in Newcastle upon Tyne .
Northumbria University has Newcastle upon Tyne origins in the Newcastle Polytechnic , established in 1969 and became the University of Northumbria at Newcastle in 1992 as part of the UK-wide process in which polytechnics became new universities .
St Mary 's became a cathedral in 1850 and St Nicholas ' in 1882 .
Newcastle upon Tyne was a prominent centre of the Plymouth Brethren movement up to the 1950s and some small congregations still function .
The present building was begun in the 12th Century and the last addition to it , apart from the vestries , was the main porch in 1726 .
BBC North East and Cumbria is located to the north of the city on Barrack Road , Spital Tongues , in a building known , as the result of its colouring , as the Pink Palace .
Vice Admiral Cuthbert Collingwood , 1st Baron Collingwood ( 1748 -- 1810 ) born in Newcastle upon Tyne ; admiral of the Royal Navy , a partner with Horatio Nelson in many sea victories , and as Nelson 's successor after Trafalgar , completing the destruction of the Napoleonic fleet .
In early 2001 , on the recommendation of Premier Bob Carr , Elizabeth II , Queen of Australia , appointed Bashir Governor of New South Wales , making Marie Bashir the state 's first female governor , and the first governor of any Australian state of Lebanese descent .
The Governor 's style and title in full is : Her Excellency Professor Marie Bashir , Companion of the Order of Australia , Commander of the Royal Victorian Order , Governor of the State of New South Wales in the Commonwealth of Australia .
Marie Bashir is a Patron of Opera Australia , the Sydney Symphony Orchestra , Sydney Philharmonia Choirs and the Australian Archaeological Institute at Athens In 2003 Bashir received the Mental Health Princess Award , awarded by Princess Galyani Vadhana of Thailand , for contribution to collaborative mental health programs between Australia and Thailand and in 2004 she was recognised as an Australian Living Treasure .
These groups correspond to the filling of the atomic d-orbital subshell of the second outermost shell and the Group 11 metals are s1d10 ( not s2d9 ) , so that the d-subshell is actually complete at Group 11 .
In the s-block and p-block of the periodic table , similar properties across the periods are generally not observed : the most important similarities tend to be vertical , down groups .
Robert Lenkiewicz home and studios once more became a magnet for vagrants and street alcoholics , who then sat for paintings .
The format of the ` Project ' -- combining thematically linked paintings with the publication of research notes and the collected observations of the sitters -- was to be used consistently throughout Lenkiewicz 's career .
Projects such as Mental Handicap ( 1976 ) , Old Age ( 1979 ) and Death ( 1982 ) followed the one on vagrancy as Robert Lenkiewicz continued to examine the lives of ostracised , hidden sections of the community and bring them to the attention of the general public .
Robert Lenkiewicz came to the conclusion that the kinds of sensations people felt when a lover abandoned them or when their cherished beliefs were threatened were identical in kind to the ` withdrawal symptoms ' and anxieties experienced by addicts or alcoholics over their preferred narcotic .
Half of the mural , in the room , shows death , destruction , insanity , unrequited love , and the apocalyptic end of the world .
Evelyn Underhill ( 1946 ) defines worship thus : `` The absolute acknowledgment of all that lies beyond us -- the glory that fills heaven and earth .
According to Mark Miravalle the English word `` worship '' is equivocal , in that Worship has been used in Catholic writing , at any rate , to denote both adoration/latria and veneration/dulia , and in some cases even as a synonym for veneration as distinct from adoration : Adoration , which is known as latria in classical theology , is the worship and homage that is rightly offered to God alone .
Worship would distinguish between `` worship of adoration '' and `` worship of veneration '' .
Hercule-Savinien de Cyrano de Bergerac ( 6 March 1619 -- 28 July 1655 ) was a French dramatist and duelist .
Bergerac wrote Contre Soucidas ( an anagram of Cyrano de Bergerac enemy 's name ) and Contre un ingrat ( `` Against an Ingrate '' ) , while D’Assoucy counterattacked with Le Combat de Cyrano de Bergerac avec le singe de Brioché , au bout du Pont-Neuf .
As in the play , Bergerac did fight at the siege of Arras ( 1640 ) , a battle of the Thirty Years ' War between French and Spanish forces in France ( though this was not the more famous final Battle of Arras , fought fourteen years later ) .
This is a swashbuckling tale of adventure and romance bearing no resemblance to Rostand 's play , other than the outstanding physical characteristics of the De Bergerac character .
The story ( which is observed by the characters but can not be influenced ) ends with Irlana marrying Cyrando , and Garrick running off with a bridesmaid .
Sir Nose is an antagonist within P-Funk mythology , and first appears on the album Funkentelechy Vs. the Placebo Syndrome by Parliament .
In men , infection of the urethra ( urethritis ) is usually symptomatic , causing a white discharge from the penis with or without pain on urinating ( dysuria ) .
Symptoms that may occur include unusual vaginal bleeding or discharge , pain in the abdomen , painful sexual intercourse ( dyspareunia ) , fever , painful urination or the urge to urinate more frequently than usual ( urinary urgency ) .
Symptoms that may occur include : a painful or burning sensation when urinating , an unusual discharge from the penis , swollen or tender testicles , or fever .
Discharge , or the purulent exudate , is generally less viscous and lighter in color than for gonorrhea .
Using the SAFE strategy ( acronym for surgery for in-growing or in-turned lashes , antibiotics , facial cleanliness , and environmental improvements ) , the World Health Organisation aims for the global elimination of trachoma by 2020 ( GET 2020 initiative ) .
When an infected host cell is starved for various nutrients such as amino acids ( for example , tryptophan ) , iron , or vitamins , this has a negative consequence for Chlamydiae since the organism is dependent on the host cell for these nutrients .
In England and Wales the NHS National Chlamydia Screening Programme ( NCSP ) aims to The diagnosis of genital chlamydial infections evolved rapidly from the 1990s through 2006 .
Nucleic acid amplification tests ( NAAT ) , such as polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) , transcription mediated amplification ( TMA ) , and the DNA strand displacement amplification ( SDA ) now are the mainstays .
Urine and self-collected swab testing facilitates the performance of screening tests in settings where genital examination is impractical .
In Facts and Fallacies about Software Engineering , Robert Glass refers to the law as a `` mantra '' of the open source movement , but calls Linus' Law a fallacy due to the lack of supporting evidence and because research has indicated that the rate at which additional bugs are uncovered does not scale linearly with the number of reviewers ; rather , there is a small maximum number of useful reviewers , between two and four , and additional reviewers above this number uncover bugs at a much lower rate .
The Öresund or Øresund Bridge ( , , joint hybrid name : Øresundsbron ) is a double-track railway and dual carriageway bridge-tunnel across the Øresund strait between Scania ( southernmost Sweden ) and Denmark .
The justification for the additional expenditure and complexity related to digging a tunnel for part of the way , rather than raising that section of Øresund Bridge , was to avoid interfering with air traffic from the nearby Copenhagen International Airport , to provide a clear channel for ships in good weather or bad , and to prevent ice floes from blocking the strait .
Since the crossing is composed of a bridge , an artificial island and a tunnel , Øresund Bridge is sometimes called the '' Öresund Link '' or the '' Öresund Connection '' ( Danish : Øresundsforbindelsen , Swedish : Öresundsförbindelsen ) .
In 2012 , to cross by car cost DKK 310 , SEK 375 or $ 43 , with discounts of up to 75 % are available to regular users .
At , Øresund Bridge covers half the distance between Sweden and the Danish island of Amager , the border between the two countries being from the Swedish end .
The connection between Peberholm and the artificial peninsula at Kastrup on Amager island , the nearest populated part of Denmark , is through the long Drogden Tunnel ( Drogdentunnelen ) .
There were challenges related to the difference in electrification and signalling between the Danish and Swedish railway networks .
The cost for the Oresund Connection , including motorway and railway connections on land , was DKK 30.1 billion ( ~ US$ 5.7 bn ) according to the 2000 year price index , with the cost of the bridge paid back by 2035 .
Helen Reed , an English novelist in her early forties with two children old enough to look after themselves , arrives on campus to spend the term there as `` writer-in-residence '' and to teach a creative writing class -- actually sitting in for a professor who is spending the term abroad to write a novel .
At one of the first social gatherings she attends , she happens to see Messenger and the wife of the Head of the School of English , Marianne Richmond , kissing passionately in the kitchen .
One weekend quite early during her stay , after they have been in the hot water outside and with Carrie already in the house , Messenger plants a firm kiss on Helen 's lips .
The students she has to teach are a small , friendly and ambitious group who meet on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons .
Later , however , during a duck race ( a fund-raising event with plastic ducks `` racing '' down a small river ) , Carrie confides in Helen : She knows all ( or almost everything ) about her husband 's flings and , by taking a lover herself , tries to get back at him .
Helen , who prefers a bedroom with the curtains drawn , is amazed at , and eventually fascinated by , Messenger 's lust and ingenuity when it comes to selecting odd spots for making love , for instance a prehistoric burial mound on top of a hill , with some hikers approaching .
( But Emily , who has an 18 year-old boyfriend and who discusses her sex life with her mother , seems to know what is going on anyway and at one point almost blackmails her stepfather .
Soon Helen ponders the question whether she is actually falling in love with him and , consequently , if and how their affair will continue after the end of the term .
For many players of video games during the early and mid 1990s , towards the end of the MS-DOS gaming era , the i486DX2-66 was a very popular processor .
There are two major versions of Intel 80486DX2 - Identified by P24 and P24D , the latter has a faster L1 cache mode , called `` write-back '' , that improves performance .
AMD and Cyrix both produced a competitor for the Intel i486DX2 .
In a 2002 study published in the Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology , only 33 % of women who were self-treating for Candidiasis actually had Candidiasis , while most had either bacterial vaginosis or a mixed-type infection .
C. albicans was isolated from the vaginas of 19 % of apparently healthy women , i.e. , those who experienced few or no symptoms of infection .
The genus Candida and species C. albicans were described by botanist Christine Marie Berkhout in her doctoral thesis at the University of Utrecht in 1923 .
The Tehran Conference ( codenamed Eureka ) was a strategy meeting held between Joseph Stalin , Franklin D. Roosevelt , and Winston Churchill from 28 November to 1 December 1943 .
Roosevelt , who had traveled 7,000 miles to attend and whose health had already started deteriorating , was met by Stalin ; this being the first time that they had met .
The `` Big Three '' spent days wrangling about when Operation Overlord should take place , who should command it , and where operations should begin .
In addition , the Soviet Union was required to pledge support to Turkey if that country entered the war ; Roosevelt , Churchill , and Stalin agreed that it would also be most desirable if Turkey entered on the Allies ' side before the year was out .
German intelligence was aware of this high profile meeting of the Allied wartime leaders , and ( according to Soviet sources ) tried to set up an assassination plot against them , called Operation Long Jump .
He said that `` war criminals must pay for their crimes and individuals who had committed barbarous acts , and in accordance with the Moscow Document , which he himself had written , Tehran Conference must stand trial at the places where the crimes were committed '' .
Tehran Conference is a strategy meeting held between Joseph Stalin , Franklin D. Roosevelt , and Winston Churchill from 28 November to 1 December 1943 .
However , there is some debate , particularly in the United States , concerning the appropriateness of `` cream '' colored coats in show-quality dogs and whether the coat should be straight or wavy in texture .
Whereas the Komondor was used in the lower elevations with drier climates , Kuvasz was used in the wet pastures of the higher mountains and both were an integral part of the economy .
When one or more output variables of a system need to follow a certain reference over time , a controller manipulates the inputs to a system to obtain the desired effect on the output of the system .
Consider a car 's cruise control , which is a device designed to maintain vehicle speed at a constant desired or reference speed provided by the driver .
If we assume the controller C , the plant P , and the sensor F are linear and time-invariant ( i.e. , elements of Control theory transfer function C ( s ) , P ( s ) , and F ( s ) do not depend on time ) , the systems above can be analysed using the Laplace transform on the variables .
If u ( t ) is the control signal sent to the system , y ( t ) is the measured output and r ( t ) is the desired output , and tracking error , a PID controller has the general form The desired closed loop dynamics is obtained by adjusting the three parameters , and , often iteratively by `` tuning '' and without specific knowledge of a plant model .
To abstract from the number of inputs , outputs and states , the variables are expressed as vectors and the differential and algebraic equations are written in matrix form ( the latter only being possible when the dynamical system is linear ) .
The state space representation ( also known as the `` time-domain approach '' ) provides a convenient and compact way to model and analyze systems with multiple inputs and outputs .
The continuous Laplace transform is in Cartesian coordinates where the axis is the real axis and the discrete Z-transform is in circular coordinates where the axis is the real axis .
Permanent oscillations occur when a pole has a real part exactly equal to zero ( in the continuous time case ) or a modulus equal to one ( in the discrete time case ) .
However , if the impulse response was then the Z-transform is which has a pole at and is not BIBO stable since the pole has a modulus strictly greater than one .
Other `` classical '' Control theory specifications regard the time-response of the closed-loop system : these include the rise time ( the time needed by the control system to reach the desired value after a perturbation ) , peak overshoot ( the highest value reached by the response before reaching the desired value ) and others ( settling time , quarter-decay ) .
For MIMO ( multi input multi output ) and , in general , more complicated control systems one must consider the theoretical results devised for each control technique ( see next section ) : i.e. , if particular robustness qualities are needed , the engineer must shift his attention to a control technique by including them in Control theory properties .
The pattern of division and assassination which characterise even the strong king Dagobert 's reign continued for the next century until Pepin the Short finally deposed Dagobert I in 751 , establishing the Carolingian dynasty .
Dagobert was immortalized in the song Le bon roi Dagobert ( The Good King Dagobert ) , a nursery rhyme featuring exchanges between the king and Dagobert I chief adviser , Saint Eligius ( Eloi in French ) .
Johann Joachim Quantz ( 30 January 1697 -- 12 July 1773 ) was a German flutist , flute maker and composer .
Although Quantz wrote many pieces of music , mainly for the flute ( including around 300 flute concertos and 200 + sonatas ) , Johann Joachim Quantz is best known today as the author of Versuch einer Anweisung die Flöte traversiere zu spielen ( 1752 ) ( titled On Playing the Flute in English ) , a treatise on traverso flute playing .
However , the use of adult male falsettos in polyphony , commonly in the alto range , was common in all-male sacred choirs for some decades previous , as early as the mid-16th century , and modern-day ensembles such as the Tallis Scholars and The Sixteen maintain the use of male altos in period works .
In opera , many roles originally written for castrati are now sung and recorded by Countertenor , as are some trouser roles originally written for female singers .
Other recent operatic parts written for Countertenor include Edgar in Aribert Reimann 's Lear ( 1978 ) , the title role in Philip Glass 's Akhnaten ( 1983 ) , Claire in John Lunn 's The Maids ( 1998 ) , the Refugee in Jonathan Dove 's Flight ( 1998 ) , and Trinculo in Thomas Adès 's The Tempest ( 2004 ) , in 2013 the Romanian countertenor Cezar Ouatu participated with his song `` It 's my life '' in the Eurovision Song Contest .
Peter Giles , a professional countertenor and noted author on the subject , defines Countertenor as a musical part rather than as a vocal style or mechanism .
The latter type of head voice is , in terms of the vocal cord vibration , actually more similar to `` chest voice '' than to falsetto , since Countertenor uses the same `` speaking voice '' production ( referred to as `` modal '' by voice scientists ) , and this is reflected in the timbre .
Chlothar II , called the Great ( le Grand ) or the Young ( le Jeune ) , King of Neustria , and , from 613 to 629 , King of all the Franks , was not yet born when Chlothar II father , King Chilperic Chlothar II died in 584 .
In addition , mixed race ( European and African ) people amount to about 2 % , with a small ( 1 % ) population of whites , mainly ethnically Portuguese ( as a former overseas territory of Portugal until 1975 , the Portuguese make up currently the largest non-African population , with more than 200,000 in 2012 , a number that has been constantly increasing from the 2000s , because of Angola 's growing demand for qualified human resources .
More than half of the Christians ( whether practizing or not ) are Roman Catholic , the remaining ones comprising members of traditional Protestant churches as well as of new , often Pentecostal communities .
As decision makers have to make decisions about how and when to decide , Ariel Rubinstein proposed to model Bounded rationality by explicitly specifying decision-making procedures .
Spending time searching for that one specific needle in the haystack is a waste of energy and resources .
On the other hand , when choosing an outfit or an option from a menu , Satisficing can be helpful .
When there is an unlimited amount of information available and it is necessary to eliminate options , satisficing is beneficial because Satisficing helps the person making the decision effectively and efficiently reach a conclusion .
One definition of satisficing is that it is optimization where all costs , including the cost of the optimization calculations themselves and the cost of getting information for use in those calculations , are considered .
Thus , from a decision theory point of view , the distinction between `` optimizing '' and `` satisficing '' is essentially a stylistic issue ( that can nevertheless be very important in certain applications ) rather than a substantive issue .
One way of looking at this is that the satisficing agent is not putting in the effort to get to the precise optimum or is unable to exclude actions that are below the optimum but still above aspiration .
Also , in economics and Game theory there is the notion of an Epsilon equilibrium , which is a generalization of the standard Nash equilibrium in which each player is within ε of his or her optimal payoff ( the standard Nash-equilibrium being the special case where ε = 0 ) .
This represents the power of the financial markets : in the long-run firms need to earn normal profits or Satisficing die ( as Armen Alchian once said `` This is the criterion by which the economic system selects survivors : those who realize positive proﬁts are the survivors ; those who suffer losses disappear '' ) .
If firms are earning profits at or above their aspiration level , then Satisficing just stay doing what Satisficing are doing ( unlike the optimizing firm which would always strive to earn the highest profits possible ) .
This means that competition is unstable : one or both of the firms will fail to achieve their aspirations and hence try something else .
This ` gestalt ' or ` whole form ' approach sought to define principles of perception -- seemingly innate mental laws that determined the way objects were perceived .
The founders of Gestalt therapy , Fritz and Laura Perls , had worked with Kurt Goldstein , a neurologist who had applied principles of Gestalt psychology to the functioning of the organism .
Reification is the constructive or generative aspect of perception , by which the experienced percept contains more explicit spatial information than the sensory stimulus on which Gestalt psychology is based .
In pictures B and D the eye recognizes disparate shapes as `` belonging '' to a single shape , in C a complete three-dimensional shape is seen , where in actuality no such thing is drawn .
Multistability ( or multistable perception ) is the tendency of ambiguous perceptual experiences to pop back and forth unstably between two or more alternative interpretations .
We perceive the dark circles as grouped together , and the light circles as grouped together forming six horizontal lines within the square of circles .
If the law of closure did not exist , the image would depict an assortment of different lines with different lengths , rotations , and curvatures -- but with the law of closure , we perceptually combine the lines into whole shapes .
Similarities between Gestalt phenomena and quantum mechanics have been pointed out by , among others , chemist Anton Amann , who commented that `` similarities between Gestalt perception and quantum mechanics are on a level of a parable '' yet may give useful insight nonetheless .
In some scholarly communities , such as cognitive psychology and computational neuroscience , gestalt theories of perception are criticized for being descriptive rather than explanatory in nature.The physiological theory of the gestaltists has fallen by the wayside , leaving us with a set of descriptive principles , but without a model of perceptual processing .
The physical mechanism causing a cracking sound produced by bending , twisting , or compressing joints is uncertain .
Cracking joints is the action of joint manipulation to produce a sharp cracking or popping sound .
In a game between a high-rated player and a low-rated player , the high-rated player is expected to score more points .
Although a player might perform significantly better or worse from one game to the next , Elo assumed that the mean value of the performances of any given player changes only slowly over time .
where is the number of rated games won , is the number of rated games drawn , and is the number of events in which the player completed three or more rated games .
Under this scheme , only Class C players and above are capable of having a higher rating floor than their absolute player rating .
If a player has achieved the rating of Original Life Master , his or her rating floor is set at 2200 .
For players with ratings below 2000 , winning a cash prize of $ 2,000 or more raises that player 's rating floor to the closest 100-point level that would have disqualified the player for participation in the tournament .
Elo 's original suggestion , which is still widely used , was a simple linear adjustment proportional to the amount by which a player overperformed or underperformed his expected score .
The maximum possible adjustment per game , called the K-factor , was set at K = 16 for masters and K = 32 for weaker players .
There are three main mathematical concerns relating to the original work of Elo , namely the correct curve , the correct K-factor , and the provisional period crude calculations .
Elo rating system overall credibility , however , needs to be seen in the context of at least the above two major issues described -- engine abuse , and selective pairing of opponents .
New players have a K = 30 , which drops to K = 15 after 30 played games , and to K = 10 when the player reaches 2400 .
The sediment generally consists of coarse-grained , water-laid sand and gravel , although gravelly loam may be found where the rock debris is rich in clay .
The best-known example of such an eiscir is the Eiscir Riada , which runs nearly the whole width of Ireland from Dublin to Galway , a distance of 200 km , and is still closely followed by the main road from Dublin to Galway ; `` Esker '' is the name of a townland in East Galway .
The acronym that may be used for this is `` PRISH '' for Pain , Redness , Immobility ( loss of function ) , Swelling and Heat .
The first four ( classical signs ) were described by Celsus ( ca 30 BC -- 38 AD ) , while loss of function was added later by Galen even though the attribution is disputed and the origination of the fifth sign has also been ascribed to Thomas Sydenham and Virchow .
These include the complement system activated by bacteria and the coagulation and fibrinolysis systems activated by necrosis , e.g. a burn or a trauma .
Some act as phagocytes , ingesting bacteria , viruses , and cellular debris .
Recent advances in basic science have established a fundamental role for inflammation in mediating all stages of this disease from initiation through progression and , ultimately , the thrombotic complications of atherosclerosis .
These new findings provide important links between risk factors and the mechanisms of atherogenesis .
Due to the central role of leukocytes in the development and propagation of inflammation , defects in leukocyte function often result in a decreased capacity for inflammatory defense with subsequent vulnerability to infection .
Molecular intersection between receptors of steroid hormones , which have important effects on cellular development , and transcription factors that play key roles in inflammation , such as NF-κB , may mediate some of the most critical effects of inflammatory stimuli on cancer cells .
Higher than normal Angptl2 level in fat tissues develop inflammation as well as insulin and leptin resistance .
This delayed onset muscle soreness ( DOMS ) results from structural damage to the contractile filaments and z-disks , which has been noted especially in marathon runners whose muscle fibers revealed remarkable damage to the muscle fibers after both training and marathon competition .
The products of the macrophage activity and intracellular contents ( such as histamines , kinins , and K + ) accumulate outside the cells .
For instance , while baseline measurements of circulating inflammatory markers do not seem to differ greatly between healthy trained and untrained adults , long-term chronic training may help reduce chronic low-grade inflammation .
Inflammation may well be that low-intensity training can reduce resting pro-inflammatory markers ( CRP , IL-6 ) , while moderate-intensity training has milder and less-established anti-inflammatory benefits .
Edema ( American English ) or oedema ( British English ) , formerly known as dropsy or hydropsy , is an abnormal accumulation of fluid in Edema , which are locations beneath the skin or in one or more cavities of the body .
Starling 's equation states that the rate of leakage of fluid is determined by the difference between the two forces and also by the permeability of the vessel wall to water , which determines the rate of flow for a given force imbalance .
After learning the truth on Sean and Mary Kate 's wedding day , an enraged Will refuses to give his sister her full dowry .
The famous kissing scene between John Wayne and Maureen O'Hara is shown in E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial ( 1982 ) when E.T. watches television .
These are limited to a single typographic line of symbols , which may include subscripts and superscripts .
Chemical formula indicate the simple numbers of each type of atom in a molecule of a molecular substance , and are thus sometimes the same as empirical formulas ( for molecules that only have one atom of a particular type ) , and at other times require larger numbers than do empirical formulas .
However , even a condensed chemical formula is necessarily limited in Chemical formula ability to show complex bonding relationships between atoms , especially atoms that have bonds to four or more different substituents .
Since a chemical formula must be expressed as a single line of chemical element symbols , Chemical formula often can not be as informative as a true structural formula , which is a graphical representation of the spacial relationship between atoms in chemical compounds ( see for example the figure for butane structural and chemical formulas , at right ) .
For example , the empirical formula of ethanol may be written C2H6O because the molecules of ethanol all contain two carbon atoms , six hydrogen atoms , and one oxygen atom .
For example , ethanol may be represented by the condensed chemical formula CH3CH2OH , and dimethyl ether by the condensed formula CH3OCH3 .
This name , and the rules behind Chemical formula , fully specify glucose 's structural formula , but the name is not a chemical formula , as Chemical formula uses many extra terms and words that chemical formulas do not permit .
A condensed chemical formula may represents the types and spatial arrangement of bonds in a simple chemical substance , though Chemical formula does not necessarily specify isomers or complex structures .
However , a more explicit method is to write H2C = CH2 or less commonly H2C : : CH2 .
In addition , linear naming systems such as International Chemical Identifier ( InChI ) allow a computer to construct a structural formula , and simplified molecular-input line-entry system , or SMILES , allows a more human-readable ASCII input .
The @ symbol ( at sign ) indicates an atom or molecule trapped inside a cage but not chemically bound to Chemical formula .
O , or Chemical formula might include a variable part represented by a letter , as in Fe1 -- xO , where x is normally much less than 1 .
This approach `` is culture specific because Emic and etic focuses on a single culture and Emic and etic is understood on Emic and etic own terms '' .
Goodenough was primarily interested in understanding the culturally specific meaning of specific beliefs and practices ; Harris was primarily interested in explaining human behavior .
She discovered that the difficulties and the transitions that adolescents faced are culturally influenced .
At approximately 7 km in length , and culminating at an elevation of 145 m or 60 m above the Douai Plains , Battle of Vimy Ridge provides a natural unobstructed view for tens of kilometres in all directions .
Battle of Vimy Ridge fell under German control in October 1914 during the Race to the Sea as the Franco-British and German forces continually attempted to outflank each other through northeastern France .
In response to increased British mining aggression , German artillery and trench mortar fire intensified in early May 1916 .
Coupled with the observations and suggestions made by Currie in the report he submitted in January 1917 following the Verdun lectures , the Canadian Corps instilled the tactical change with vigour .
These measures gave each platoon a clearer picture of how Battle of Vimy Ridge fitted into the greater battle plan , and in so doing , reduced the command and control problems that plagued First World War combat .
Of the explosive charges laid by the British , three mines were fired before Battle of Vimy Ridge ; another three mines and two specialized charges were fired at the start of the attack .
In the Canadian Corps trench raiding developed into a training and leadership-building mechanism .
Competition between units even developed with units competing for the honour of greatest number of prisoners captured or most destruction wrought .
This experience did not lessen the extent to which the Canadian Corps employed trench raiding with raids being conducted nightly between 20 March and the opening of the offensive on 9 April , resulting in approximately 1,400 additional Canadian casualties .
As a result , the 9th Canadian Brigade , 15th British Brigade and 95th British Brigade were kept in corps-level reserve .
General of Infantry Ernst August Marx von Bachmeister , commanding the German 79th Reserve Division , reported in late-March that he believed the Canadian Corps was moving into an echelon formation and were preparing for a major attack .
During the late hours of 8 April and early morning of 9 April the men of the leading and supporting wave of the attack were moved into their forward assembly positions .
Light field guns laid down a barrage that advanced in predetermined increments , often 91 m every three minutes , while medium and heavy howitzers established a series of standing barrages further ahead , against known defensive systems .
After a planned pause , when the 1st , 2nd and 3rd Canadian Divisions consolidated their positions , the advance resumed .
Although the German commanders were able to maintain open lines of communication and issue operating orders , even with swift staff work the tempo of Battle of Vimy Ridge was such that German decision cycle was unable to react decisively .
The 10th Canadian Brigade , assisted by snow and a westerly wind , fought hastily entrained German troops to capture the entire Pimple by 6:00 pm .
Although Battle of Vimy Ridge is not generally considered the greatest achievement of the Canadian Corps in strategic importance or results obtained , it was the first instance in which all four Canadian divisions , made up of troops drawn from all parts of the country , fought as a cohesive formation .
The idea that Canada 's national identity and nationhood were born out of Battle of Vimy Ridge is an opinion that is widely held in military and general histories of Canada .
Located on the highest point of Battle of Vimy Ridge , Battle of Vimy Ridge is dedicated to the commemoration of the Battle of Vimy Ridge and Canadian Expeditionary Force members killed during the First World War .
The word `` coleoptera '' is from the Greek , koleos , meaning `` sheath '' ; and , pteron , meaning `` wing '' , thus `` sheathed wing '' , because most beetles have two pairs of wings , the front pair , the `` elytra '' , being hardened and thickened into a sheath-like , or shell-like , protection for the rear pair , and for the rear part of Beetle body .
The largest taxonomic family is commonly thought to be the Curculionidae ( the weevils or snout beetles ) , but recently the Staphylinidae ( the rove Beetle ) have claimed this title .
Beetles are endopterygotes ; Beetle undergo complete metamorphosis , a biological process by which an animal physically develops after a birth or hatching , undergoing a series of conspicuous and relatively abrupt changes in Beetle body structure .
Though classification at the family level is a bit unstable , about 500 families and subfamilies are recognized .
Two pairs of finger-like appendages , the maxillary and labial palpi , are found around the mouth in most Beetle , serving to move food into the mouth .
The pterathorax is the fused meso - and metathorax , which are commonly separate in other insect species , although flexibly articulate from the prothorax .
In a few families , both the ability to fly and the elytra have been lost , with the best known example being the glow-worms of the family Phengodidae , in which the females are larviform throughout their lives .
The abdomen is the section behind the metathorax , made up of a series of rings , each with a hole for breathing and respiration , called a spiracle , composing three different segmented sclerites : the tergum , pleura , and the sternum .
Carbon dioxide is more soluble in water than either oxygen or nitrogen , so Beetle readily diffuses out faster than in .
The ground beetle 's ( of Carabidae ) defensive glands , located at the posterior , produce a variety of hydrocarbons , aldehydes , phenols , quinones , esters , and acids released from an opening at the end of the abdomen .
Bombardier beetles have well-developed , like other carabid Beetle , pygidial glands that empty from the lateral edges of the intersegment membranes between the seventh and eighth abdominal segments .
Several species of the genus Cicindela ( Cicindelidae ) have ears on the dorsal surfaces of their first abdominal segments beneath the wings ; two tribes in the subfamily Dynastinae ( Scarabaeidae ) have ears just beneath their pronotal shields or neck membranes .
Though Beetle constitute a large order and live in a variety of niches , examples of hearing are surprisingly lacking amongst species , though likely most simply remain undiscovered .
Going beyond `` complete metamorphosis '' , however , some Beetle , such as typical members of the families Meloidae and Rhipiphoridae , undergo hypermetamorphosis in which the first instar takes the form of a triungulin .
Some scarab beetles ( for example , Rutelinae ) utilize pheromones derived from fatty acid synthesis , while other scarab beetles use amino acids and terpenoid compounds ( for example , Melolonthinae ) .
Beetle whose larvae are somewhat flattened and are highly mobile are the ground beetles , some rove Beetle , and others ; their larvae are described as campodeiform .
Beetle of the family Dytiscidae hold air between the abdomen and the elytra when diving .
Adult crawling water beetles use both their elytra and their hind coxae ( the basal segment of the back legs ) in air retention , while whirligig beetles simply carry an air bubble down with them whenever Beetle dive .
The unfolding and folding of the wings is operated by muscles attached to the wing base ; as long as the tension on the radial and cubital veins remains , the wings remain straight .
One species , a rover beetle ( Bledius spectabilis ) displays both causes for parental care : physical and biotic environmental factors .
The giant African longhorn beetle ( Petrognatha gigas ) resembles the moss and bark of the tree Beetle feeds on .
The molecule 's selective toxicity toward the beetle 's fungal antagonist , combined with the prevalence and localization of Beetle bacterial source , indicates an insect-microbe association that is both mutualistic and coevolved .
Hydrophilidae , Byrrhidae , Elateroidea ) and in nearly a perfectly preserved condition .
However , species from the families Cupedidae and Schizophoroidae are not present at this site , whereas they dominate at other fossil sites from the Lower Triassic .
Predatory ground beetles ( Carabidae ) and rove beetles ( Staphylinidae ) began to distribute into different patterns ; whereas the Carabidae predominantly occurred in the warm regions , the Staphylinidae and click Beetle ( Elateridae ) preferred many areas with temperate climates .
Between the Paleogene and the Neogene is when today 's beetles developed .
Evidence for a close relationship of the two suborders , Polyphaga and Myxophaga , includes the shared reduction in the number of larval leg articles .
The boll weevil crossed the Rio Grande near Brownsville , Texas , to enter the United States from Mexico around 1892 , and had reached southeastern Alabama by 1915 .
The bark beetle and elm leaf beetle , among other species , have been known to nest in elm trees .
Ground beetles ( family Carabidae ) are common predators of many different insects and other arthropods , including fly eggs , caterpillars , wireworms , and others .
Dung beetles ( Scarabidae ) have been successfully used to reduce the populations of pestilent flies and parasitic worms that breed in cattle dung .
Whole Beetle , either as-is or encased in clear plastic , are also made into objects varying from cheap souvenirs such as key chains to expensive fine-art jewelry .
The derivative term xprw or ḫpr ( w ) is variously translated as `` form '' , `` transformation '' , `` happening '' , `` mode of being '' , or `` what has come into being '' , depending on the context .
Scarab beads in semiprecious stones or glazed ceramics can be purchased at most bead shops , while at Luxor Temple , a massive ancient scarab has been roped off to discourage visitors from rubbing the base of the statue `` for luck '' .
The study of beetles is called coleopterology ( from Coleoptera , see above , and Greek , - logia ) , and Beetle practitioners are coleopterists .
John Fisher ( c. 19 October 1469 -- 22 June 1535 ) was an English Catholic bishop and theologian .
John Fisher earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1487 and in 1491 , proceeded to a Master of Arts degree .
As a preacher John Fisher reputation was so great that in 1509 , during which both King Henry VII and the Lady Margaret died , Fisher was appointed to preach the funeral oration on both occasions , the texts being still extant .
In this capacity John Fisher appeared on the Queen 's behalf in the legates ' court , where John Fisher startled John Fisher hearers by the directness of John Fisher language and most of all by declaring that , like St John the Baptist , John Fisher was ready to die on behalf of the indissolubility of marriage .
This was the occasion when the clergy were forced , at a cost of 100,000 pounds , to purchase the king 's pardon for having recognized Cardinal Wolsey 's authority as legate of the pope ; and at the same time to acknowledge Henry as Supreme Head of the Church in England , to which phrase the addition of the clause `` so far as God 's law permits '' was made through Fisher 's efforts .
A few days later , several of Fisher 's servants were taken ill after eating some porridge served to the household and two died .
However , a public outcry was brewing among the London populace who saw a sinister irony in the parallels between the conviction of Fisher and that of John Fisher patronal namesake , Saint John the Baptist , who was executed by King Herod Antipas for challenging the validity of Herod 's marriage to John Fisher brother 's divorcée Herodias .
Fisher 's head was stuck upon a pole on London Bridge but its ruddy and lifelike appearance excited so much attention that , after a fortnight , it was thrown into the Thames , its place being taken by that of Sir Thomas More , whose martyrdom , also at Tower Hill , occurred on 6 July .
In 1980 , despite being an opponent of the English Reformation that created the Church of England , John Fisher was added to the Church of England 's calendar of Saints and Heroes of the Christian Church , jointly with Thomas More , to be commemorated every 6 July ( the date of More 's execution ) as `` Thomas More , Scholar , and John Fisher , Bishop of Rochester , Reformation Martyrs , 1535 '' .
The augmented fourth ( A4 ) and diminished fifth ( d5 ) are defined as the intervals produced by widening and narrowing by one chromatic semitone the perfect fourth and fifth , respectively .
Tritone both span six semitones , and Tritone are the inverse of each other , meaning that Tritone sum is exactly equal to one perfect octave ( A4 + d5 = P8 ) .
In most other tuning systems , Tritone are not equivalent , and neither is exactly equal to half an octave .
In a chromatic scale , the interval between any note and the previous or next is a semitone .
Tritone occurs naturally between the fourth and seventh scale degrees of the major scale ( for example , from F to B in the key of C major ) .
The melodic minor scale , having two forms , presents a tritone in different locations when ascending and descending ( when the scale ascends , Tritone appears between the third and sixth scale degrees and the fourth and seventh scale degrees , and when the scale descends , Tritone appears between the second and sixth scale degrees ) .
The dominant seventh chord in root position contains a ( d5 ) tritone within Tritone pitch construction : Tritone occurs between the third and seventh above the root .
The inversion of this , a Tritone , resolves inward to a major or minor third .
Tritone is also one of the defining features of the Locrian mode , being featured between the and fifth scale degrees .
It seems first to have been designated as a `` dangerous '' interval when Guido of Arezzo developed his system of hexachords and with the introduction of B flat as a diatonic note , at much the same time acquiring Tritone nickname of `` Diabolus in Musica '' ( `` the devil in music '' ) .
For instance , in the tritone B -- F , B would be `` mi '' , that is the third scale degree in the `` hard '' hexachord beginning on G , while F would be `` fa '' , that is the fourth scale degree in the `` natural '' hexachord beginning on C. Later in history with the rise of the Baroque and Classical music era , that interval came to be perfectly accepted , but yet was used in a specific controlled way , notably through the principle of the tension/release mechanism of the tonal system .
Tritone is only with the Romantic music and modern classical music that composers started to use Tritone totally freely , without functional limitations notably in an expressive way to exploit the `` evil '' connotations which are culturally associated to Tritone ( e.g. , Franz Liszt 's use of the tritone to suggest Hell in his Dante Sonata ) .
George Harrison uses tritones on the downbeats of the opening phrases of the Beatles songs `` The Inner Light '' , `` Blue Jay Way '' and `` Within You Without You '' , creating a prolonged sense of suspended resolution .
Tritone is one of the defining features of the Locrian mode , being featured between the and fifth scale degrees .
Mary Tudor, Queen of France ( 18 March 1496 -- 25 June 1533 ) was the younger of the two surviving daughters of King Henry VII of England and Elizabeth of York , and the younger sister of King Henry VIII of England .
Mary Tudor, Queen of France and Mary Tudor, Queen of France brother , Henry , were close as children -- he named his daughter , the future Queen Mary Mary Tudor, Queen of France , after Mary Tudor, Queen of France .
Among other destinations , Concorde flew regular transatlantic flights from London Heathrow and Paris-Charles de Gaulle Airport to New York JFK and Washington Dulles ; Concorde profitably flew these routes in less than half the time of other airliners .
With only 20 aircraft built , the development of Concorde was a substantial economic loss ; Air France and British Airways also received considerable government subsidies to purchase them .
Concorde name reflects the development agreement between the United Kingdom and France .
In the UK , any or all of the type -- unusual for Concorde -- are known simply as `` Concorde '' , without an article .
In the late 1950s , France , the United Kingdom , United States , and Soviet Union were considering developing supersonic transport .
By this time , both companies had been merged into new ones ; thus , Concorde project was between the British Aircraft Corporation and Aérospatiale .
Reflecting the treaty between the British and French governments which led to Concorde construction , the name Concorde is from the French word , which has an English equivalent , .
This created a nationalist uproar that died down when Benn stated that the suffixed ` e ' represented `` Excellence , England , Europe and Entente ( Cordiale ) '' .
Every surface , such as windows and panels , was warm to the touch by end of the flight .
The most obvious manifestation of this being a gap that opened up on the flight deck between the flight engineer 's console and the bulkhead .
With no other civil traffic operating at Concorde cruising altitude of about 56000 ft , dedicated oceanic airways or `` tracks '' were used by Concorde to cross the Atlantic .
The port nose wheel carries speed generators for the anti-skid braking system which prevents brake activation until nose and main wheels are rotating at the same rate .
Concorde drooping nose , developed by Marshall Aerospace , enabled the aircraft to switch between being streamlined to reduce drag and achieve optimum aerodynamic efficiency , and not obstructing the pilot 's view during taxi , takeoff , and landing operations .
The Federal Aviation Administration had objected to the restrictive visibility of the visor used on the first two prototype Concordes and thus requiring alteration before the FAA would permit Concorde to serve US airports ; this led to the redesigned visor used on the production and the four pre-production aircraft ( 101 , 102 , 201 , and 202 ) .
The nose window and visor glass needed to endure temperatures in excess of 100 ° C at supersonic flight were developed by Triplex .
In spite of complaints about noise , the noise report noted that Air Force One , at the time a Boeing VC-137 , was louder than Concorde at subsonic speeds and during takeoff and landing .
These were used on subsonic flights between Dallas-Fort Worth and Washington Dulles International Airport , flown by Braniff flight crews .
Concorde were registered in both the United States and their home countries ; the European registration was covered while being operated by Braniff , retaining full AF/BA liveries .
BCal 's envisaged two-Concorde fleet would have required a high level of aircraft utilisation to be cost-effective ; therefore , BCal had decided to operate the second aircraft on a supersonic service between Gatwick and Atlanta , with a stopover at either Gander or Halifax .
Between 1984 and 1991 , British Airways flew a thrice-weekly Concorde service between London and Miami , stopping at Washington Dulles International Airport .
On 25 July 2000 , Air France Flight 4590 , registration F-BTSC , crashed in Gonesse , France after departing from Paris Charles de Gaulle en route to John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City , killing all 100 passengers and nine crew members on board the flight , and four people on the ground .
Normal commercial operations resumed on 7 November 2001 by BA and AF ( aircraft G-BOAE and Concorde ) , with service to New York JFK , where passengers were welcomed by then mayor Rudy Giuliani .
One of the youngest Concordes ( Concorde ) is on display at Le Bourget Air and Space Museum in Paris .
In May 2010 , it was reported that the British Save Concorde Group and French Olympus 593 groups had begun inspecting the engines of a Concorde at the French museum ; their intent is to restore the airliner to a condition where Concorde can fly in demonstrations .
The Tu-144 had two crashes , one at the 1973 Paris Air Show , and another during a pre-delivery test flight in May 1978 .
Concorde had retractable canards for better low-speed control , turbojet engines providing nearly the fuel efficiency and range of Concorde and a top speed of Mach 2.35 .
Opposition to Concorde noise , particularly on the east coast of the United States , forged a new political agenda on both sides of the Atlantic , with scientists and technology experts across a multitude of industries beginning to take the environmental and social impact more seriously .
David W. Fahey , of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , found that to produce a drop in stratospheric Ozone of 1 to 2 % would require a fleet of 500 supersonic aircraft to be operated .
The ZEHST , a hypersonic aircraft to be capable of 3,000 mph ( 4,800 km/h ) , is a result of the collaboration efforts between EADS and Japan .
The Völsungasaga ( often referred to in English as the Volsunga Saga or Saga of the Völsungs ) is a legendary saga , a late 13th century Icelandic prose rendition of the origin and decline of the Völsung clan ( including the story of Sigurd and Brynhild and destruction of the Burgundians ) .
During a battle , Odin , again in the guise of an old , one-eyed man , breaks Sigmund 's sword , turning the tide of the battle and ultimately leading to his death .
He also stabs Brynhild with a sleeping thorn and curses her never to win another battle as an act of revenge for killing Hjalmgunnar , a rival king to whom Odin had promised victory .
Geordie were mercenaries employed by the ancient Brythons to fight the Pictish invaders after the end of Roman rule in Britannia in the 5th century ; the Angles , Saxons and Jutes who thus arrived became , over time , ascendant politically and -- through population transfer from tribal homelands in Northern Europe -- culturally over the native British .
Linguist Katie Wales also dates the term earlier than does the Oxford English Dictionary ; she observes that Geordy ( or Geordie ) was a common name given to coal mine pitmen in ballads and songs of the region , noting that such usage turns up as early as 1793 .
The Geordie word , meaning a toilet and place of need and necessity for relief or bathroom , has an uncertain origin , though some have theorised that Geordie may come from slang used by Roman soldiers on Hadrian 's Wall , which may have later become in the Romanic Italian language ( such as in the Westoe Netty , the subject of a famous painting from Bob Olley ) .
John Trotter Brockett , writing in 1829 in his A glossary of north country words ... , claims that the etymon of netty ( and Geordie related form neddy ) is the Modern English needy and need .
Cheryl Cole , a member of Girls Aloud and judge on The X Factor , has a Geordie accent , she says that she 's `` proud to be Geordie !
While hosting during a May 2011 taping of Britain 's Got Talent , Dec Donnelly ( one half of the popular Geordie duo Ant & Dec ) made an apparent attempt to stand up for Cole by asking co-producer and judge Simon Cowell on the show , `` Can you understand my accent ?
The Steve Coogan-helmed BBC comedy I 'm Alan Partridge featured a Geordie named Michael ( Simon Greenall ) as the primary supporting character and de facto best friend of the eponymous hero , despite Partridge 's referring to Michael at one point as ` just the Work Geordie ' and having great difficulty understanding what he says .
In 1974 , Alan Price 's `` Jarrow Song '' reached number one in the old RNI International Service , and number 4 in the UK charts , which brought to the attention once again of the Jarrow March .
On the arts program `` Aria and Pasta , '' the Durham-born opera singer Sir Thomas Allen ( who retains some Geordie vowels in his speech ) described the dish he prepared as `` Geordie Pasta '' .
The character `` Geordie Georgie '' , as portrayed by Catherine Tate in her eponymous TV show , is a Geordie , complete with a thick affected accent , and is portrayed regularly taking part in ( mostly ridiculously ambitious ) sponsored events for a North East based charity -- the charity in question usually has a website with an outrageous domain name , for instance , the site for the charity she supports for battered husbands is `` www.chinnedbythemissus.co.uk '' .
Adûnaic ( or Adûnaic ) ( `` language of the west '' ) is a fictional language in the fantasy works of J. R. R. Tolkien .
Adûnaic derived from the closely related Bëorian and Hadorian dialects of Taliska , the language spoken by the first and third houses of the Edain when they first entered Beleriand during the First Age ( the language ( s ) of the second house , the Haladin , seems to have had little or no influence on Adûnaic whatsoever , despite the apparent presence of both the Haladin and the Drúedain in Númenor prior to its downfall ) .
This language seems to have primarily been a creole of the Dwarvish Khuzdul and some Avarin dialects , and it is almost wholly unclear which parts ( if any ) of Adûnaic vocabulary and structure were purely `` Mannish '' in origin , though the answer is probably very little ( it is stated that Finrod Felagund was able to quickly master Taliska purely by determining the various changes undergone by Adûnaic Avarin component from Primitive Quendian ) .
Adûnaic corpus , already a varied mixture of Khuzdul , Avarin , and Sindarin , was probably now exposed more heavily to the influence of Quenya ( which served a role much the same as Latin in Medieval Europe ) and possibly even Valarin , both due to regular contact with Aman .
Although `` classical '' Adûnaic was not spoken after the Akallabêth , surviving groups of the King 's Men ( referred to as Black Númenóreans ) who served and worshipped Sauron ( notably in Umbar ) continued to speak a debased form of Adûnaic ( called Black Adûnaic ) as recently as the War of the Ring at the end of the Third Age .
Tom Maguire ( 28 March 1892 -- 5 July 1993 ) was an Irish republican who held the rank of commandant-general in the Western Command of the Irish Republican Army ( IRA ) and led the South Mayo flying column .
Tom Maguire opposed the Anglo-Irish Treaty , and apart from saying `` Níl '' ( `` No '' in English ) when the vote was called , did not participate in any substantial way in the Dáil treaty debates .
( Despite this ban , IRA officers Seán Farrell ( Leitrim -- Sligo ) and John Madden ( Mayo North ) contested the election , the latter successfully ) .
Although the 1938 conferring has been crucial to the ideology of republican legitimatists , for all intents and purposes its validity was rejected by the overwhelming majority of the Irish people .
Hercule Poirot first appearance was in The Mysterious Affair at Styles ( published 1920 ) and his last in Curtain ( published 1975 , the year before Christie died ) .
Hercule Poirot , as mentioned in Curtain and The Clocks , is extremely fond of classical music , particularly Mozart and Bach .
In chapter 21 of The Murder of Roger Ackroyd , for example , Hercule Poirot talks about a mentally disabled nephew : this proves to be a ruse so that he can find out about homes for the mentally unfit , and in Dumb Witness , Hercule Poirot tells of an elderly invalid mother as a pretence to investigate the local nurses .
Christie is purposefully vague , as Poirot is thought to be elderly even in the early Hercule Poirot novels , and in An Autobiography '' she admitted that she already imagined him to be an old man in 1920 .
So much had he become the rage that every rich woman who had mislaid a bracelet or lost a pet kitten rushed to secure the services of the great Hercule Poirot '' .
It is clear that Hastings and Hercule Poirot are already friends when they meet in Chapter 2 of the novel , because Hastings tells Cynthia that he has not seen him for `` some years '' .
The date of 1916 for the case , and the fact that Hastings had met Hercule Poirot in Belgium , is given in Curtain : Hercule Poirot Last Case , Chapter 1 ( Someone had been shot in a village where Hastings was duck-shooting and Hercule Poirot had been called in from the Brussels police to investigate ) .
She claims to have been a member of the Russian aristocracy before the Russian Revolution and suffered greatly as a result , but how much of that story is true is an open question .
Hercule Poirot is also shown to have an love of steam trains , which contrasts Hasting 's love of cars : this is shown in The Mystery of the Blue Train , Murder On The Orient Express , and The ABC Murders ( in the TV series , steam trains are seen in nearly all of the episodes ) .
If the Labours precede the events in Roger Ackroyd , then the Roger Ackroyd case must have taken place around twenty years later than it was published , and so must any of the cases that refer to it .
While Hercule Poirot actual death and funeral occurred in Curtain , years after his retirement from active investigation , it was not the first time Hastings attended the funeral of his best friend .
Hastings , a former British Army officer , first meets Hercule Poirot during Hercule Poirot years as a police officer in Belgium and almost immediately after they both arrive in England .
Whether this was during one of Hercule Poirot numerous retirements or before she entered his employment is unknown .
The 1942 novel Five Little Pigs ( aka Murder in Retrospect ) , in which Hercule Poirot investigates a murder committed sixteen years before by analysing various accounts of the tragedy , is a Rashomon-like performance that critic and mystery novelist Robert Barnard called the best of the Christie novels .
Hercule Poirot also starred Faye Dunaway and David Suchet as Inspector Japp , just before Suchet began to play the famous detective .
As a result , Suchet will have filmed adaptations of every Hercule Poirot novel , and all but one Hercule Poirot short story .
In 2004 , NHK ( Japanese public TV network ) produced a 39 episode anime series titled Agatha Christie 's Great Detectives Hercule Poirot and Marple , as well as a manga series under the same title released in 2005 .
The series , adapting several of the best-known Hercule Poirot and Marple stories , ran from 4 July 2004 through 15 May 2005 , and has since been shown in repeated reruns on NHK and other networks in Japan .
Much of the story , set in contemporary times , was played for comedy , with Hercule Poirot investigating the murders while evading the attempts by Hastings ( Robert Morley ) and the police to get him out of England and back to Belgium .
In the final host segment of Mystery Science Theater 3000s episode `` The Rebel Set '' , Tom Servo dresses up as Hercule Poirot and impersonates him in an attempt to discover the identity of B-movie actor Merritt Stone .
Hercule Poirot is parodied twice in sketch show That Mitchell and Webb Look , where he is played by David Mitchell ; one sketch sees him identifying a killer due to her use of `` the evil voice '' -- a voice that only murderers use -- admitting that he otherwise had no evidence , and a later sketch sees him meeting a ship captain who is also played by Mitchell .
Emil Kraepelin was first introduced to biology by Emil Kraepelin brother Karl , 10 years older and , later , the director of the Zoological Museum of Hamburg .
There Emil Kraepelin began to study and record many clinical histories in detail and `` was led to consider the importance of the course of the illness with regard to the classification of mental disorders '' .
Following a large donation from the Jewish German American banker James Loeb who had at one time been a patient , and promises of support from ` patrons of science ' , the German Institute for Psychiatric Research was founded in 1917 in Munich .
Kraepelin is specifically credited with the classification of what was previously considered to be a unitary concept of psychosis , into two distinct forms ( known as the Kraepelinian dichotomy ) : Drawing on Emil Kraepelin long-term research , and using the criteria of course , outcome and prognosis , Emil Kraepelin developed the concept of dementia praecox , which Emil Kraepelin defined as the `` sub-acute development of a peculiar simple condition of mental weakness occurring at a youthful age '' .
The concept of ` psychopathic inferiorities ' had been recently popularised in Germany by Julius Ludwig August Koch , who proposed congenital and acquired types .
The issues would today mainly be considered under the category of personality disorders , or in terms of Emil Kraepelin focus on psychopathy .
Kraepelin 's great contribution in classifying schizophrenia and manic-depression remains relatively unknown to the general public , and Emil Kraepelin work , which had neither the literary quality nor paradigmatic power of Freud 's , is little read outside scholarly circles .
Emil Kraepelin in general has been described as a ` scientific manager ' and political operator , who developed a large-scale , clinically oriented , epidemiological research programme .
Frits Philips wanted to give the people of Eindhoven a beautiful and educational gift to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the company that bears his family name .
This core curriculum involves such areas that include the study of the surrounding environment , basic natural laws , and the disciplines that promote a happier , more educated living .
Lastly , Bagley wrote of the importance of accuracy , thoroughness and effort on part of the student in the classroom .
Although it is difficult to maintain a pure and strict essentialist-only curriculum , these schools have the central aim of establishing a common knowledge base for all citizens .
To do so , Educational essentialism follow a nation-wide , content-specific , and teacher-centered curriculum .
Because essentialism is relatively conservative and focuses on disciplines which are relatively stable , Educational essentialism is a rather consistent form of education .
The term `` Progressive education '' was engaged to distinguish this education from the traditional curriculum of the 19th century , which was rooted in classical preparation for the university and strongly differentiated by socioeconomic level .
Locke first speculated , `` truth and knowledge ... are out of observation and experience rather than manipulation of accepted or given ideas `` ( Locke as cited in Hayes , 2007 , p. 2 ) .
Knowledge is a social condition and it is important to help students construct their own learning , as stated : `` Hence it is impossible to prepare the child for any precise set of conditions .
Progressive education conceives the school as a place where certain information is to be given , where certain lessons are to be learned , or where certain habits are to be formed '' ( Dewey , 1897 , para .
38 ) The Nature of Method Method is focused on the child 's powers and interests .
William Heard Kilpatrick ( 1871 -- 1965 ) was a pupil of Dewey and one of the most effective practitioner of the concept as well as the more adept at proliferating Progressive education and spreading word of the works of Dewey .
Parker 's Quincy System called for child-centered and experience-based learning .
( Cremin , 136 ) For Dewey the two key goals of developing a cooperative community and developing individuals ' own capacities were not at odds ; they were necessary to each other .
( Cremin , 282 ) Based on Flexner 's demand that the modern curriculum `` include nothing for which an affirmative case can not be made out '' ( Cremin , 281 ) the new school organized its activities around four fundamental fields : science , industry , aesthetics and civics .
The first and second grades carried on a study of community life in which they actually built a city .
A third grade project growing out of the day to day life of the nearby Hudson river became one of the most celebrated units of Progressive education , a unit on boats , which under the guidance of its legendary teacher Miss Curtis , became an entrée into history , geography , reading , writing , arithmetic , science , art and literature .
Each of the units called for widely diverse student activities , and each sought to deal in depth with some critical aspect of contemporary civilization .
( Kohn , Schools , 6,7 ) As the influence of Progressive education pedagogy grew broader and more diffuse , practitioners began to vary their application of progressive principles .
As varying interpretations and practices made evaluation of progressive reforms more difficult to assess , critics began to propose alternative approaches .
The Open Classroom movement , led by Herb Kohl and George Dennison , recalled many of Parker 's child centered reforms .
A rethinking of education theory following that , along with the subsequent and prevailing conservative political climate , helped to cause progressivism to fall from favor .
Progressive education is a place where certain information is to be given , where certain lessons are to be learned , or where certain habits are to be formed '' ( Dewey , 1897 , para .
Progressive education is a place where certain information is to be given , where certain lessons are to be learned , or where certain habits are to be formed '' ( Dewey , 1897 .
Specialized conferences , notably the International Conference on New interfaces for musical expression , have organized to report cutting edge work , as well as to provide a showcase for artists who perform or create music with new electronic music instruments , controllers , and synthesizers .
Electronic musical instrument use of envelope control is significant , since this is perhaps the most significant distinction between the modern synthesizer and other electronic instruments .
Designed by Herbert Belar and Harry Olson at RCA , with contributions from Vladimir Ussachevsky and Peter Mauzey , it was installed at Columbia University in 1957 .
Robert Moog , who had been a student of Peter Mauzey and one of the RCA Mark II engineers , created a synthesizer that could reasonably be used by musicians , designing the circuits while he was at Columbia-Princeton .
The term `` electronic music '' ( which first came into use during the 1930s ) came to include the tape recorder as an essential element : `` electronically produced sounds recorded on tape and arranged by the composer to form a musical composition '' ) Electronic musical instrument was also indispensable to Musique concrète .
Much of this manipulation of circuits directly , especially to the point of destruction , was pioneered by Louis and Bebe Barron in the early 1950s , such as their work with John Cage on the Williams Mix and especially in the soundtrack to Forbidden Planet .
Jon Appleton ( with Jones and Alonso ) invented the Dartmouth Digital Synthesizer , later to become the New England Digital Corp 's Synclavier .
Iannis Xenakis began what is called musique stochastique , or stochastic music , which is a method of composing that employs mathematical probability systems .
Lejaren Hiller and Leonard Isaacson composed Iliac Suite for string quartet , the first complete work of computer-assisted composition using algorithmic composition .
Circuit bending is the creative customization of the circuits within electronic devices such as low voltage , battery-powered guitar effects , children 's toys and small digital synthesizers to create new musical or visual instruments and sound generators .
Emphasizing spontaneity and randomness , the techniques of circuit bending have been commonly associated with noise music , though many more conventional contemporary musicians and musical groups have been known to experiment with `` bent '' instruments .
When the cell is being charged , Electrode becomes the positive and the cathode the negative electrode .
The other theory claims that Epistolary novel arose from miscellanies of letters and poetry : some of the letters were tied together into a ( mostly amorous ) plot .
The immensely famous Letters of a Portuguese Nun ( Lettres portugaises ) ( 1669 ) generally attributed to Gabriel-Joseph de La Vergne , comte de Guilleragues , though a small minority still regard Marianna Alcoforado as the author , is claimed to be intended to be part of a miscellany of Guilleragues prose and poetry .
The first novel to expose the complex play that the genre allows was Aphra Behn 's Love-Letters Between a Nobleman and His Sister , which appeared in three volumes in 1684 , 1685 , and 1687 .
Although Jane Austen tried her hand at the Epistolary novel in juvenile writings and her novella Lady Susan , she abandoned this structure for her later work .
Evidence-based medicine ( EBM ) , also called evidence-based health care ( EBHC ) or Evidence-based practice ( EBP ) to broaden Evidence-based medicine application to allied health care professionals , has been defined as `` the conscientious , explicit and judicious use of current best evidence in making decisions about the care of individual patients '' .
EBM recognizes that many aspects of health care depend on individual factors such as quality - and value-of-life judgments , which are only partially subject to quantitative scientific methods .
Clinical epidemiology aims to bridge the gap between clinical practice and public health using population health sciences to inform clinical practice .
This definition , put forward by one of the original proponents of evidence-based medicine , has since been adopted by major organizations , including the Cochrane Collaboration and the Centre for Evidence Based Medicine .
A 2007 analysis of 1016 systematic reviews from all 50 Cochrane Collaboration Review Groups found that 44 % of the reviews concluded that the intervention was `` likely to be beneficial '' , 7 % concluded that the intervention was `` likely to be harmful '' , and 49 % concluded that evidence `` did not support either benefit or harm '' .
Evidence-based medicine categorizes different types of clinical evidence and rates or grades them according to the strength of their freedom from the various biases that beset medical research .
Systematic reviews may include Randomized Controlled trials that have low risk of bias , or , observational studies that have high risk of bias .
In the case of observational studies , the quality of evidence starts of lower and may be upgraded in three domains in addition to being subject to downgrading .
The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( AUC-ROC ) reflects the relationship between sensitivity and specificity for a given test .
Number needed to treat or Number needed to harm are ways of expressing the effectiveness and safety of an intervention in a way that is clinically meaningful .
In many cases , it is unknown whether a particular `` disease '' has one , several , or no underlying biological causes , with controversy arising over whether some diseases are merely an artifact of the attempt to construct a unified classification scheme , rather than a `` real '' disease .
The explicit methodologies used to determine `` best evidence '' were largely established by the McMaster University research group led by David Sackett and Gordon Guyatt .
Where approval for a drug has been given , and subsequent Evidence-based medicine findings indicating that a drug may be less safe than originally anticipated , some insurers in the U.S. have reacted very cautiously and withdrawn funding .
End zone is the area between the end line and goal line bounded by the sidelines .
The difference between rugby and gridiron-based codes is that in rugby , the ball must be touched to the ground in the in-goal area to count as a try ( the rugby equivalent of a touchdown ) , whereas in the gridiron-based games , simply possessing the ball while End zone is in the end zone is sufficient to count End zone as a touchdown .
Goal posts were placed on the goal line , and any kicks that did not result in field goals but left the field through the end lines were simply recorded as touchbacks ( or , in the Canadian game , singles ; End zone was during the pre-end zone era that Hugh Gall set the record for most singles in a game , with 8 ) .
The end zone in Canadian football is 20 yards long by 65 yards wide , while the end zone in American football is 10 yards long by 53 1/3 yards wide ( Canadian football is played on a longer and wider field ) .
At the high school level , it is not uncommon to see multi-purpose goal posts that include football goal posts at the top and a soccer net at the bottom ; these are usually seen at smaller schools and in multi-purpose stadiums where facilities are used for multiple sports .
When these or H-shaped goal posts are used in football , the lower portions of the posts are covered with several inches of heavy foam padding to protect the safety of the players .
Ettore Ximenes ( April 11 , 1855 , Palermo -- December 20 , 1926 , Rome ) was an Italian sculptor of mostly religious and mythological subjects .
Edsger W. Dijkstra was known to be a fan of ALGOL 60 , and worked on the team that implemented the first compiler for that language .
Edsger W. Dijkstra wrote two important papers in 1968 , devoted to the structure of a multiprogramming operating system called THE , and to Cooperating Sequential Processes .
The analogy Edsger W. Dijkstra made was to contrast the compositional approaches of Mozart and Beethoven .
For example , Edsger W. Dijkstra coined the programming phrase `` two or more , use a for '' , alluding to the rule of thumb that when you find yourself processing more than one instance of a data structure , it is time to consider encapsulating that logic inside a loop .
Dijkstra would distribute photocopies of a new EWD among Edsger W. Dijkstra colleagues ; as many recipients photocopied and forwarded their copy , the EWDs spread throughout the international computer science community .
Miss Marple , usually referred to as Miss Marple , is a fictional character appearing in 12 of Agatha Christie 's crime novels and in 20 short stories .
Miss Marple solves difficult crimes because of her shrewd intelligence , and St. Mary Mead , over her lifetime , has given her seemingly infinite examples of the negative side of human nature .
When she made Miss Marple , the results , starring Margaret Rutherford , were popular and successful light comedies , but were disappointing to Christie herself ; nevertheless , Agatha Christie dedicated the novel The Mirror Crack 'd from Side to Side to Rutherford .
, and the changes made in the plot were typical of the series .
The other Rutherford films ( all directed by George Pollock ) were Murder at the Gallop ( 1963 ) , based on the 1953 Hercule Poirot novel After the Funeral ( In this film , she is identified as Miss JTV Marple , though there was no indication as to what the extra initials might stand for ) ; Murder Most Foul ( 1964 ) , based on the 1952 Poirot novel Mrs McGinty 's Dead ; and Murder Ahoy !
Miss Marple is a bold and eccentric old lady , different from the prim and birdlike character Christie created in her novels .
As promoted primarily by Robert Hutchins and Mortimer Adler , a universal curriculum based upon the common and essential nature of all human beings is recommended .
Hutchins and Adler implemented these ideas with great success at the University of Chicago , where they still strongly influence the curriculum in the form of the undergraduate Common Core .
Adler states : `` The three R 's , which always signified the formal disciplines , are the essence of liberal or general education '' .
One of the most remarkable features of American society is that the difference between the `` uneducated '' and the `` educated '' is so slight .
Many studies , particularly in the fields of psychology and cognitive therapy , have suggested MDMA has therapeutic benefits and facilitates therapy sessions in certain individuals , a practice for which MDMA had formally been used in the past .
For 2008 , the UN estimated between 10 and 25 million people globally used MDMA once in the past year .
The term `` flipping '' may come from the subjective effects of using MDMA with a psychedelic in which the user may shift rapidly between a more lucid state and a more psychedelic state several times during the course of MDMA experiences .
The top side effects reported were difficulty concentrating , jaw clenching , grinding of the teeth during sleep , lack of appetite , and dry mouth/thirst ( all occurring in more than 50 % of the 74 volunteers ) .
In rats , high doses and in high temperatures , serotonergic neurotoxicity is limited and dopaminergic neurotoxicity occurs .
Despite these findings , many factors , including total lifetime MDMA consumption , the duration of abstinence between uses , dosage , the environment of use , multiple drug use/abuse , quality of mental health , various lifestyle choices , and predispositions to develop clinical depression and other disorders , have made the results of many studies difficult to verify .
One possible product of this reaction , 2,5-bis - ( glutathion-S-yl ) - alpha-methyldopamine , has been demonstrated to produce the same toxic effects observed in MDMA , while MDMA , and alpha-methyldopamine themselves have been shown to be non-neurotoxic .
Combining MAO inhibitors with certain legal prescription and over-the-counter medications can also lead to ( potentially fatal ) serotonin syndrome .
A spokesperson for the ACMD said , `` The recent article by Professor David Nutt published in the Journal of Psychopharmacology was done in respect of his academic work and not as chair of the ACMD '' .
A number of reported potentially dangerous possible interactions occur between MDMA and other drugs , including serotonergic drugs .
Commercial sassafras oil generally is a byproduct of camphor production in Asia or comes from related trees in Brazil .
Once the MDP2P intermediate has been prepared , a reductive amination leads to MDMA , a racemate 1:1 mixture of ( R ) -1 - ( benzod1,3dioxol-5-yl ) - N-methylpropan-2-amine and ( S ) -1 - ( benzod1,3dioxol-5-yl ) - N-methylpropan-2-amine .
Metabolites of MDMA include 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine ( MDA ) , ( HMMA ) , ( HMA ) , ( DHA ) ( also called alpha-methyldopamine ( α-Me-DA ) ) , 3,4-methylenedioxyphenylacetone ( MDP2P ) , and N-hydroxy-3 ,4 - methylenedioxyamphetamine ( MDOH ) .
It is thought that this can result in sustained and higher concentrations of MDMA if the user takes consecutive doses of MDMA .
While there is little or no evidence that low CYP2D6 activity increases risks from MDMA , it is likely that MDMA-induced CYP2D inhibition will increase risk of those prescription drugs that are metabolized by this enzyme .
However , because MDMA excretion and metabolism have nonliniar kinetics , the half-lives would be higher at more typical doses ( 100 mg is sometimes considered a typical dose ) .
Spreading along with rave culture , illicit MDMA use became increasingly widespread among young adults in universities and later in high schools .
This is thought to be due to increased seizures and decreased production of the precursor chemicals used to manufacture MDMA .
Unwitting substitution with other drugs , such as mephedrone and methamphetamine , as well as legal alternatives to MDMA , such as BZP , MDPV , and methylone , are also thought to have contributed to MDMA decrease in popularity .
In 2000 , the UK Police Foundation issued the Runciman Report , which reviewed the medical and social harms of MDMA and recommended : `` Ecstasy and related compounds should be transferred from Class A to Class B. '' In 2002 , the Home Affairs Committee of the UK House of Commons , issued a report , The Government 's Drugs Policy : Is it working ?
The Committee noted that research had found the health risks of MDMA were less serious than previously assumed ( citing the 2009 UK ACMD report ) , and so they considered moving MDMA out of the Dutch List I ( ` hard drugs ' ) to List II ( ` soft drugs ' such as cannabis ) , but this was not acceptable because the criminal black market would continue to produce all the MDMA .
Demand for safrole , a substance used in the manufacture of MDMA , is causing rapid and illicit harvesting of the Cinnamomum parthenoxylon tree in Southeast Asia , in particular the Cardamom Mountains in Cambodia .
Demand for safrole , mostly for industrial use but also for MDMA production , depletes around 500,000 trees per year in China , Brazil , Cambodia , Vietnam , and Laos .
Only a small proportion of illicitly harvested safrole is going toward MDMA production , as over 90 % of the global safrole supply ( approx 2000 metric tons per year ) is used to manufacture pesticides , fragrances , and other chemicals .
The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime claimed in MDMA 2008 World Drug Report that typical U.S. retail prices are US$ 20 to $ 25 per tablet , or from $ 3 to $ 10 per tablet if bought in batches .
Despite Flag of Europe being the flag of two separate organisations , Flag of Europe is often more associated with the EU due to the EU 's higher profile and heavy usage of the emblem .
Flag of Europe has also been used to represent Europe in sporting events and as a pro-democracy banner outside the Union .
The resolution proposed that the Communities ' flag should be that of the Council of Europe and Flag of Europe was adopted by the Parliament on 11 April 1983 .
The most popular were the European Movement 's large green ` E ' on a white background , and the `` Pan European flag '' ( see `` Creation '' below ) .
The first major organisation to adopt one was the European Coal and Steel Community ( ECSC ) , which merged into the European Communities .
In 2002 , Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas and his architecture firm Office for Metropolitan Architecture ( OMA ) designed a new flag in response to Commission President Romano Prodi 's request to find ways of rebranding the Union in a way that represents Europe 's `` diversity and unity '' .
Flag of Europe was never officially adopted by the EU or any organisation ; however , Flag of Europe was used as the logo of the Austrian EU Presidency in 2006 .
Additionally , a declaration by sixteen Member States on the symbols , including the flag , was included in the final act of the Treaty of Lisbon stating that the flag , the anthem , the motto and the currency and Europe Day `` will for them continue as symbols to express the sense of community of the people in the European Union and their allegiance to Flag of Europe '' .
The base colour of Flag of Europe is a dark blue ( reflex blue , a mix of cyan and magenta ) , while the golden stars are portrayed in Yellow .
This is because Flag of Europe originally was the flag of the Council of Europe , and does not have a relationship with the EU .
West Germany objected to this as one of the members was the disputed area of Saarland , and to have Flag of Europe own star would imply sovereignty for the region .
Allegedly , Lévy one day passed a statue of the Virgin Mary with a halo of stars and was struck by the way the stars , reflecting the sun , glowed against the blue of the sky .
Flag of Europe uses the same blue and yellow colours and the stars , although of a different number and colour , are a direct reference to those of the European flag .
Anthem of Europe is the anthem of the Council of Europe and the European Union , promoted as a symbol for the whole of Europe as are the other European symbols .
Due to the large number of languages used in the European Union , Anthem of Europe is purely instrumental , and the German lyrics Friedrich Schiller wrote and Beethoven based the melody upon have no official status .
Despite this , the German lyrics are often sung by choirs or ordinary people when Anthem of Europe is played : for example , at the 2004 enlargement on the German-Polish border , the crowd watching the ceremony playing the music sang along with the German lyrics .
This version and another by Maurice Bouchor , published with Julien Thiersot under the title Hymn for future times ( Hymne des temps futurs ) in a music book which was widespread among basic schools , is performed unofficially by school choirs during European events .
Anthem of Europe is the anthem of the European Union and the Council of Europe ; both of which refer to it as the European Anthem due to the Council 's intention that , as a modern composition with a mythological flair , it does represent Europe as a whole , rather than any organisation .
Anthem of Europe is the anthem of the European Union and the Council of Europe ; both of which refer to it as the European Anthem due to the Council 's intention that , as a modern composition with a mythological flair , it does represent Europe as a whole .
The similarities between all present day organisms indicate the presence of a common ancestor from which all known species , living and extinct , have diverged through the process of evolution .
Timeline of evolution is subdivided into three eras , the Paleozoic , Mesozoic and Cenozoic , which are divided by major mass extinctions .
Edmund Burke PC ( 12 January NS 1729 -- 9 July 1797 ) was an Irish statesman , author , orator , political theorist and philosopher , who , after moving to England , served for many years in the House of Commons of Great Britain as a member of the Whig party .
In 1744 , Edmund Burke went to Trinity College , Dublin and , in 1747 , set up a debating society , `` Edmund Burke Club '' , which , in 1770 , merged with the college 's Historical Club to form the College Historical Society , now the oldest undergraduate society in the world .
Richard Hurd believed that Burke 's imitation was near-perfect and that this defeated Edmund Burke purpose : an ironist `` should take care by a constant exaggeration to make the ridicule shine through the Imitation .
Burke identified the `` discontents '' as stemming from the `` secret influence '' of a neo-Tory group Edmund Burke calls the `` king 's friends '' , whose system `` comprehending the exterior and interior Administrations , is commonly called , in the technical language of the Court , Double Cabinet '' .
Party divisions '' ... whether operating for good or evil , are things inseparable from free government '' .
Burke resisted these demands and said : `` If , from this conduct , Edmund Burke shall forfeit their suffrages at an ensuing election , it will stand on record an example to future representatives of the Commons of England , that one man at least had dared to resist the desires of Edmund Burke constituents when Edmund Burke judgment assured Edmund Burke they were wrong '' .
Burke published Two Letters to Gentlemen of Bristol on the Bills relative to the Trade of Ireland , in which Edmund Burke espoused `` some of the chief principles of commerce ; such as the advantage of free intercourse between all parts of the same kingdom ... the evils attending restriction and monopoly ... and that the gain of others is not necessarily our loss , but on the contrary an advantage by causing a greater demand for such wares as we have for sale '' .
This support for unpopular causes , notably free trade with Ireland and Catholic Emancipation , led to Burke losing Edmund Burke seat in 1780 .
Edmund Burke imagines an angel in 1704 prophesying to Bathurst the future greatness of England and also of America : `` Young man , There is America -- which at this day serves little more than to amuse you with stories of savage men , and uncouth manners ; yet shall , before you taste of death , shew itself equal to the whole of that commerce which now attracts the envy of the world '' .
In Burke 's view , the British government was fighting `` the American English '' ( `` our English Brethren in the Colonies '' ) , with a German-descended King employing `` the hireling sword of German boors and vassals '' to destroy the colonists ' English liberties .
These interests are largely economic or associated with particular localities whose livelihood they characterize , in Edmund Burke over-all prosperity they involve '' .
While Edmund Burke and the committee focused their attention on these matters , a second ` secret ' committee was formed to assess the same issues .
These are the grand sepulchres built by ambition ; but by the ambition of an insatiable benevolence , which , not contented with reigning in the dispensation of happiness during the contracted term of human life , had strained , with all the reachings and graspings of a vivacious mind , to extend the dominion of their bounty beyond the limits of nature , and to perpetuate themselves through generations of generations , the guardians , the protectors , the nourishers of mankind .
Edmund Burke held that the advent of British dominion , and in particular the conduct of the East India Company had destroyed much that was good in these traditions and that , as a consequence of this , and the lack of new customs to replace them , the Indians were suffering .
The trial , which did not begin until 14 February 1788 , would be the `` first major public discursive event of its kind in England '' , bringing the morality and duty of imperialism to the forefront of the public 's perception .
In that very short space of time they had completely pulled down to the ground , their monarchy ; their church ; their nobility ; their law ; their revenue ; their army ; their navy ; their commerce ; their arts ; and their manufactures ... there was a danger of an imitation of the excesses of an irrational , unprincipled , proscribing , confiscating , plundering , ferocious , bloody and tyrannical democracy ... in religion the danger of their example is no longer from intolerance , but from Atheism ; a foul , unnatural vice , foe to all the dignity and consolation of mankind ; which seems in France , for a long time , to have been embodied into a faction , accredited , and almost avowed .
The debate between Price and Edmund Burke was `` the classic moment at which two fundamentally different conceptions of national identity were presented to the English public '' .
A French translation appeared on 29 November and on 30 November the translator , Pierre-Gaëton Dupont , wrote to Edmund Burke saying 2,500 copies had already been sold .
What the Glorious Revolution had meant was important to Burke and Edmund Burke contemporaries , as it had been for the last one hundred years in British politics .
The Revolution was made to preserve our antient indisputable laws and liberties , and that antient constitution of government which is our only security for law and liberty ... The very idea of the fabrication of a new government , is enough to fill us with disgust and horror .
They endeavour to prove that the ancient charter ... were nothing more than a re-affirmance of the still more ancient standing law of the kingdom ... In the famous law ... called the Petition of Right , the parliament says to the king , `` Your subjects have inherited this freedom '' , claiming their franchises not on abstract principles `` as the rights of men '' , but as the rights of Englishmen , and as a patrimony derived from their forefathers .
`` Prejudice '' , Edmund Burke claimed , `` is of ready application in the emergency ; it previously engages the mind in a steady course of wisdom and virtue , and does not leave Edmund Burke hesitating in the moment of decision , skeptical , puzzled , and unresolved .
Edmund Burke use of flowery language to describe it , however , provoked both praise and criticism .
Price had rejoiced that the French king had been `` led in triumph '' during the October Days but to Burke this symbolised the opposing revolutionary sentiment of the Jacobins and the natural sentiments of those like Edmund Burke who regarded the ungallant assault on Marie Antoinette with horror , as a cowardly attack on a defenceless woman .
Burke said , no , Sir , not more than usual -- You have and very well employed too , but there are none so deaf as those that w ` ont hear , and none so blind as those that w ` ont see -- Burke made a low bow , Sir , Edmund Burke certainly now understand you , but was afraid Edmund Burke vanity or presumption might have led Edmund Burke to imagine what Your Majesty has said referred to what Edmund Burke have done -- You can not be vain -- You have been of use to us all , it is a general opinion , is it not so Lord Stair ?
It is said Lord Stair ; -- Your Majesty 's adopting it , Sir , will make the opinion general , said Burke -- Edmund Burke know it is the general opinion , and Edmund Burke know that there is no Man who calls Edmund Burke a Gentleman that must not think Edmund Burke obliged to you , for you have supported the cause of the Gentlemen -- You know the tone at Court is a whisper , but The King said all this loud , so as to be heard by every one at Court .
In November 1790 , François-Louis-Thibault de Menonville , a member of the National Assembly of France , wrote to Burke , praising the Reflections and requesting more `` very refreshing mental food '' that Edmund Burke could publish .
Burke said Rousseau `` entertained no principle either to influence of Edmund Burke heart , or to guide Edmund Burke understanding , but vanity '' , which Edmund Burke `` was possessed to a degree little short of madness '' .
Edmund Burke also cited Rousseau 's Confessions as evidence that Rousseau had a life of `` obscure and vulgar vices '' that was not `` chequered , or spotted here and there , with virtues , or even distinguished by a single good action '' .
This provoked a reply from Fox , yet Edmund Burke was unable to give Edmund Burke speech for some time since Edmund Burke was overcome with tears and emotion , Edmund Burke appealed to Burke to remember their inalienable friendship but also repeated Edmund Burke criticisms of Burke and uttered `` unusually bitter sarcasms '' .
Burke was dismayed that some Whigs , instead of reaffirming the principles of the Whig party Edmund Burke laid out in the Reflections , had rejected them in favour of `` French principles '' and criticised Burke for abandoning Whig principles .
... that the foundations laid down by the Commons , on the trial of Doctor Sacheverel , for justifying the revolution of 1688 , are the very same laid down in Mr. Burke 's Reflections ; that is to say , -- a breach of the original contract , implied and expressed in the constitution of this country , as a scheme of government fundamentally and inviolably fixed in King , Lords and Commons .
Although Whig grandees like Portland and Fitzwilliam privately agreed with Burke 's Appeal , they wished Edmund Burke had used more moderate language .
Burke sent a copy of the Appeal to the King and the King requested a friend to communicate to Burke that Edmund Burke had read it `` with great Satisfaction '' .
Eventually most of the Whigs sided with Edmund Burke and gave their support to Pitt 's conservative government , which , in response to France 's declaration of war against Britain , declared war on France 's revolutionary government in 1793 .
Edmund Burke now warn Edmund Burke countrymen to beware of these execrable philosophers , whose only object it is to destroy every thing that is good here , and to establish immorality and murder by precept and example -- ` Hic niger est hunc tu Romane caveto ' ` Such a man is evil ; beware of Edmund Burke , Roman ' .
Writing to a friend in May 1795 , Burke surveyed the causes of discontent : `` Edmund Burke think Edmund Burke can hardly overrate the malignity of the principles of Protestant ascendency , as they affect Ireland ; or of Indianism , as they affect these countries , and as they affect Asia ; or of Jacobinism , as they affect all Europe , and the state of human society itself .
Although it has not been found in Edmund Burke speeches , writings , or letters ( and is thus apocryphal ) , in 1770 Edmund Burke wrote in Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents that `` when bad men combine , the good must associate ; else they will fall , one by one , an unpitied sacrifice in a contemptible struggle '' .
Edmund Burke is an Irish statesman , author , orator , political theorist and philosopher , who , after moving to England , served for many years in the House of Commons of Great Britain as a member of the Whig party .
Home cities are drawn at the beginning of the game from a pack of city cards and Elfenland remain hidden throughout the game .
The European Conservatives and Reformists group , typified by centre-right parties such as the British Conservative Party , along with the European United Left -- Nordic Green Left which is an alliance of the left-wing parties in the European Parliament , is soft Euroscepticism .
A survey in , conducted by TNS Opinion and Social on behalf of the European Commission , showed that , for the European Union overall , those who think that Euroscepticism country 's interests are looked after well in the EU are now in a minority ( 42 % ) .
Those with a positive image of the EU are down from a high of 52 % in 2007 to a low of 31 % in May 2012 ( unchanged since November 2011 ) ; this compares with 28 % with a negative image of the EU , and 39 % with a neutral image ( up from a low of 14 % in 2007 ) .
However , in the UK , the eurosceptic United Kingdom Independence Party achieved second place in the elections , finishing ahead of the governing Labour Party , and the British National Party ( BNP ) won Euroscepticism first ever two MEPs .
Petr Mach , an economist , a close associate of president Václav Klaus and a member of the Civic Democratic Party between 1997 and 2007 , founded the Free Citizens Party in 2009 .
The Socialist People 's Party , minorities within the Social Liberal Party and Social Democratic Party , and some smaller parties were against accession to the European Union in 1972 .
Whereas the current Finnish administration ( notably Jutta Urpilainen ) has been more hesitant towards the EU monetary policy than the previous ones , Eurobarometers and other polls have shown that among Finnish citizens , the opinion trend has been somewhat reversed during recent years .
In the 2009 European Parliament elections , Debout la République obtained 1.77 % of the national vote , and Libertas 4.8 % .
The Citizen and Republican Movement , a left-wing Euroscepticism and souverainist party , did not participate in the 2009 elections .
Communist Party of Greece , Golden Dawn ( Greece ) , Anticapitalist Left Cooperation for the Overthrow Jobbik , Politics Can Be Different ( soft Euroscepticism ) The two main Euroscepticism parties are Independence Party and Progressive Party .
The Communist Party of Britain and The Socialist Workers Party , neither of which have any considerable power or influence , with not one seat in Parliament nor in a local council , both criticise the European Union from an ultra-left perspective and their `` scepticism '' is a form of left-wing euroscepticism although Euroscepticism adherents may reject the term .
Two BNP candidates , Andrew Brons and Nick Griffin , were elected to the European Parliament in 2009 .
April starts on the same day of the week as July in all years , and January in leap years .
St George 's day is the twenty-third of the month ; and St Mark 's Eve , with April superstition that the ghosts of those who are doomed to die within the year will be seen to pass into the church , falls on the twenty-fourth .
In China the symbolic ploughing of the earth by the emperor and princes of the blood took place in their third month , which frequently corresponds to April .
The `` Days of April '' ( journées d'avril ) is a name appropriated in French history to a series of insurrections at Lyons , Paris and elsewhere , against the government of Louis Philippe in 1834 , which led to violent repressive measures , and to a famous trial known as the procès d'avril .
In statistics , an estimator is a rule for calculating an estimate of a given quantity based on observed data : thus the rule and Estimator result ( the estimate ) are distinguished .
The point estimators yield single-valued results , although this includes the possibility of single vector-valued results and results that can be expressed as a single function .
This is in contrast to an interval estimator , where the result would be a range of plausible values ( or vectors or functions ) .
However , in robust statistics , statistical theory goes on to consider the balance between having good properties , if tightly defined assumptions hold , and having less good properties that hold under wider conditions .
An `` estimator '' or `` point estimate '' is a statistic ( that is , a function of the data ) that is used to infer the value of an unknown parameter in a statistical model .
Mathematically , a sequence of Estimator is a consistent estimator for parameter θ if and only if , for all , no matter how small , we have The consistency defined above may be called weak consistency .
The word `` Emerald '' is derived ( via Old French : Esmeraude and Middle English : Emeraude ) , from Vulgar Latin : Esmaralda/Esmaraldus , a variant of Latin Smaragdus , which originated in Greek : σμάραγδος ( smaragdos ; `` green gem '' ) .
Emerald , like all colored gemstones , are graded using four basic parameters -- the four Cs of Connoisseurship : Color , Cut , Clarity and Crystal .
The last C , crystal , is simply a synonym for transparency , or what gemologists call diaphaneity .
In America , the distinction between traditional emeralds and the new vanadium kind is often reflected in the use of terms such as `` Colombian Emerald '' .
Yellow and blue are the normal secondary hues found in Emerald .
Gray is the normal saturation modifier or mask found in emerald ; a grayish-green hue is a dull green hue .
Other liquids , including synthetic oils and polymers with refractive indexes close to that of emerald such as Opticon are also used .
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) has very strict regulations as to what can and what can not be called `` synthetic '' stone .
From the very first days of the expansion of the British colonies from the coast of North America into the heartland of the continent , a recurring problem was that of transportation between the coastal ports and the interior .
That the principal exportable product of the Ohio Valley was grain did not help matters , as grain was a high-volume , low-priced commodity , frequently not worth the cost of transporting Erie Canal to far-away population centers ( this was a factor leading to farmers in the west turning their grains into Whiskey for easier transport and higher sales , and later the Whiskey Rebellion ) .
The colonial idea of Erie Canal ( or artificially improved waterway ) to tie the East Coast to the new western settlements was in the air ; in 1724 , New York provincial official Cadwallader Colden made a passing reference ( in a report on fur trading ) to improving the natural waterways of western New York .
Erie Canal began construction in 1817 and was completed eight years later at a cost of $ 7 million ; it was acclaimed as an engineering marvel .
Erie Canal construction , through limestone and mountains , proved a daunting task .
James Geddes and Benjamin Wright , who laid out the route , were judges whose experience in surveying was in settling boundary disputes .
Expansion to the east and west proceeded , and the whole eastern section , 250 mi from Brockport to Albany , opened on September 10 , 1823 to great fanfare .
In 1824 , before Erie Canal was completed , a detailed Pocket Guide for the Tourist and Traveler , Along the Line of the Canals , and the Interior Commerce of the State of New York , was published for the benefit of travelers and land speculators -- possibly America 's first tour guide .
The inexperience of the crews often led to accidents , and sometimes rocks falling on nearby homes .
The Genesee Valley Canal was run along the Genesee River to connect with the Allegheny River at Olean , but the Allegheny section , which would have connected to the Ohio and Mississippi rivers , was never built .
In Pennsylvania , the Main Line of Public Works was a combined canal and railroad running west from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh on the Ohio River , opened in 1834 .
Apart from the years 1827 -- 1829 , canal boat operators were not required to record or report passenger names to the government , which , in this case , was the state of New York .
Many notable authors wrote about Erie Canal , including Herman Melville , Frances Trollope , Nathaniel Hawthorne , Harriet Beecher Stowe , Mark Twain , Samuel Hopkins Adams and the Marquis de Lafayette , and many tales and songs were written about life on Erie Canal .
Erie Canal replaced much of the original route , leaving many abandoned sections ( most notably between Syracuse and Rome ) .
The new alignment began on the Hudson River at the border between Cohoes and Waterford , where it ran northwest with five locks ( the so-called `` Waterford Flight '' ) , running into the Mohawk River east of Crescent .
This reach of 64.2 miles from Henrietta to Lockport is called `` the 60 & The growth of railroads and highways across Erie Canal , and the opening of the Saint Lawrence Seaway , caused commercial traffic on Erie Canal to decline dramatically during the second half of the 20th century .
Travel on the Canal 's middle section ( particularly in the Mohawk Valley ) was severely hampered by flooding in late June and early July 2006 .
Ethanol , also called ethyl alcohol , pure alcohol , Ethanol , or Ethanol , is a volatile , flammable , colorless liquid .
Best known as the type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages , Ethanol is also used in thermometers , as a solvent , and as a fuel .
Liebig used the term ` ethyl alcohol ' to distinguish between ethanol and other alcohols .
Although distillation was well known by the early Greeks and Arabs , the first recorded production of alcohol from distilled wine was by the School of Salerno alchemists in the 12th century .
The miscibility of ethanol with alkanes is limited to alkanes up to undecane , mixtures with dodecane and higher alkanes show a miscibility gap below a certain temperature ( about 13 ° C for dodecane ) .
This azeotropic composition is strongly temperature - and pressure-dependent and vanishes at temperatures below 303 K. Hydrogen bonding causes pure ethanol to be hygroscopic to the extent that Ethanol readily absorbs water from the air .
Which process is more economical depends on prevailing prices of petroleum and grain feed stocks .
C2H4 + H2SO4 → CH3CH2SO4H CH3CH2SO4H + H2O → CH3CH2OH + H2SO4 Ethanol for use in alcoholic beverages , and the vast majority of ethanol for use as fuel , is produced by fermentation.C6H12O6 → 2 CH3CH2OH + 2 CO2 C12H22O11 + H2O → 4 CH3CH2OH + 4 CO2 Fermentation is the process of culturing yeast under favorable thermal conditions to produce alcohol .
Addition of an entraining agent , such as benzene , cyclohexane , or heptane , allows a new ternary azeotrope comprising the ethanol , water , and the entraining agent to be formed .
The oxidation product of ethanol , acetic acid , is a nutrient for humans , being a precursor to acetyl CoA , where the acetyl group can be spent as energy or used for biosynthesis .
When this is added into the custom Localised Pollution Index ( LPI ) of The Clean Fuels Report the local pollution ( pollution that contributes to smog ) is 1.7 on a scale where gasoline is 1.0 and higher numbers signify greater pollution .
The ethanol content of a beverage is usually measured in terms of the volume fraction of ethanol in the beverage , expressed either as a percentage or in alcoholic proof units .
Ice beer ( also known by the German term Eisbier or Eisbock ) is also freeze-distilled , with beer as the base beverage .
At higher dosages ( BAC > 1 g/L ) , ethanol acts as a central nervous system depressant , producing at progressively higher dosages , impaired sensory and motor function , slowed cognition , stupefaction , unconsciousness , and possible death .
Normally , NAD is used to metabolise fats in the liver , and as such alcohol competes with these fats for the use of NAD .
Alcohol and metronidazole One of the most important drug/food interaction that should be noted is between alcohol and metronidazole .
From the lungs , blood returns to the heart and will be distributed throughout the body .
Why people lose Ethanol sense of balance after drinking alcohol : When alcohol reaches the brain , Ethanol has the ability to delay signals that are sent between nerve cells that control balance , thinking and movement .
Complications of this disease could include a burning pain in the abdomen , bloating and in severe cases , the presence of dark black stools that indicate an internal bleed .
Although some species such as the Pentailed Treeshrew exhibit ethanol seeking behaviors , most show no interest or avoidance of food sources containing ethanol .
In 1998 , Eric Clapton , a recovering alcoholic and drug addict , founded the Crossroads Centre on Antigua , a medical facility for recovering substance abusers .
Eric Clapton preserved Eric Clapton practice sessions using Eric Clapton portable Grundig reel-to-reel tape recorder , listening to them over and over until Eric Clapton felt Eric Clapton 'd got it right .
It was during this time period that Clapton 's Yardbirds rhythm guitarist , Chris Dreja , recalled that whenever Clapton broke a guitar string during a concert , Eric Clapton would stay on stage and replace it .
Hendrix 's arrival had an immediate and major effect on the next phase of Clapton 's career , although Eric Clapton continued to be recognised in UK music polls as the premier guitarist .
Their U.S. hit singles include `` Sunshine of Your Love '' ( Cream 's farewell album , Goodbye , featuring live performances recorded at The Forum , Los Angeles , 1968 , was released shortly after Cream disbanded ; it also featured the studio single `` Badge '' , co-written by Eric Clapton and George Harrison .
The close friendship between Eric Clapton and Harrison resulted in Clapton playing on Harrison 's `` While My Guitar Gently Weeps '' from the Beatles ' White Album ( 1968 ) .
The problem with that was Eric Clapton had bonded or was developing a relationship with George , exclusive of them .
Using the Bramletts ' backing group and an all-star cast of session players ( including Leon Russell and Stephen Stills ) , Clapton recorded Eric Clapton first solo album during two brief tour hiatuses , fittingly named Eric Clapton .
Other notable recordings from this period include Clapton 's guitar work on Dave Mason 's post-Traffic Alone Together album ( in particular , the solo at the end of `` Look at You , Look at Eric Clapton '' ) ; and Stephen Stills ' self-titled first solo album ( witness the song `` Go Back Home '' ) .
Clapton would return the favour by playing ` The Preacher ' in Ken Russell 's film version of The Who 's Tommy in 1975 ; Eric Clapton appearance in the film ( performing `` Eyesight to the Blind '' ) is notable as Eric Clapton is clearly wearing a fake beard in some shots , the result of deciding to shave off Eric Clapton real beard after the initial takes in an attempt to force the director to remove Eric Clapton earlier scene from the movie and leave the set .
With this band Clapton recorded 461 Ocean Boulevard ( 1974 ) , an album with an emphasis on more compact songs and fewer guitar solos ; the cover version of `` Eric Clapton Shot The Sheriff '' was Clapton 's first No. 1 hit and was important in bringing reggae and the music of Bob Marley to a wider audience .
The horn-peppered `` Run '' echoed Collins ' `` Sussudio '' and rest of Eric Clapton Genesis/solo output , while `` Tearing Us Apart '' ( with Tina Turner ) and the unimpressed `` Miss You '' echoed Clapton 's angry sound .
A collaboration with guitarist J. J. Cale , titled The Road to Escondido , was released on 2006 , featuring Derek Trucks and Billy Preston .
The chemistry between Trucks and Clapton convinced Eric Clapton to invite The Derek Trucks Band to open for Clapton 's set at Eric Clapton 2007 Crossroads Guitar Festival .
The rights to Clapton 's official memoirs , written by Christopher Simon Sykes and published in 2007 , were sold at the 2005 Frankfurt Book Fair for .
Kristen Foster , a spokesperson , said , `` Eric Clapton receives numerous offers to play in countries around the world , '' and `` there is no agreement whatsoever for Eric Clapton to play in North Korea '' .
In February 2008 Clapton performed with Eric Clapton long-time friend Steve Winwood at Madison Square Garden and guested on Eric Clapton recorded single , `` Dirty City '' , on Winwood 's album Nine Lives .
Songs like `` In Memory of Elizabeth Reed '' were punctuated with others , including `` The Weight '' , with Levon Helm ; Johnny Winter sitting in on Hendrix 's `` Red House '' ; and `` Layla '' .
Van Morrison ( who also cancelled ) said in an interview that Eric Clapton and Clapton were to do a `` couple of songs '' , but that they would do something else together at `` some other stage of the game '' .
The `` woman tone '' is the informal term used by Clapton to refer to Eric Clapton distinctive mid - to late-1960s electric guitar sound , created using Eric Clapton Gibson SG solid body guitar ( with Humbucker pick-ups ) and a Marshall tube amplifier .
Perhaps the best example of the `` woman tone '' is Clapton 's famous riff and solo from Cream 's 1967 hit `` Sunshine of Your Love '' .
Eric Clapton contributed guitar and vocals to `` Runaway Train '' , a duet with Elton John on the latter 's The One album the following year .
This incident , along with some controversial remarks made around the same time by David Bowie , as well as uses of Nazi-related imagery by Sid Vicious and Siouxsie Sioux , were the main catalysts for the creation of Rock Against Racism , which occurred on 1978 .
In a 2004 interview with Uncut , Eric Clapton referred to Powell as `` outrageously brave '' , and stated that his `` feeling about this has not changed '' , because the UK is still '' ... inviting people in as cheap labour and then putting them in ghettos '' .
This was a compilation of property and income which include a # 9 million yacht , `` Va Bene '' ( previously owned by Bernie Ecclestone ) , Eric Clapton back music catalogue , Eric Clapton touring income , and Eric Clapton Marshbrook holding company , which had earned Eric Clapton # 110 million since 1989 .
Clapton 's music has appeared in dozens of movies and television shows as far back as 1973 's Mean Streets which featured the song `` Eric Clapton Looked Away '' .
HP Enterprise Services clients are located around the globe and many are very large companies and governments that need services from a company of HP 's scale .
In 2011 , HP Enterprise Business , along with participating independent user groups , combined HP Enterprise Services annual HP Software Universe , HP Technology Forum and HP Technology@Work into a single event , HP Discover .
The story of Prometheus ' sacrifice-trick in Hesiod 's Theogony relates how Prometheus tricked Zeus into choosing the bones and fat of the first sacrificial animal rather than the meat to justify why , after a sacrifice , the Greeks offered the bones wrapped in fat to the gods while keeping the meat for themselves .
( It should be noted that in the account given of the same events , in rabbinic sources ( b. Talmud Shabbat 99a ; Exodus Rabbah 41 ) and in the Qur ` an , Aaron is not the idol-maker and upon Moses ' return begged Aaron pardon as Aaron had felt mortally threatened by the Israelites ( Quran 7:142 -152 ) . )
On the very day of Aaron consecration , Aaron sons , Nadab and Abihu , were consumed by fire from the Lord for having offered incense in an unlawful manner ( Leviticus 10 ) .
When , on the eighth day , the high priest had inaugurated Aaron office of sacrifice by killing the animals , Aaron blessed the people ( very likely according to the prescriptions of Numbers 6:24 -26 ) , and , with Moses , entered into the tabernacle to possess it .
Aaron entreated Moses to intercede for her , at the same time confessing the sin and folly that prompted the uprising .
Micah a prophet in Judaism , mentions Moses , Aaron , and Miriam as the leaders of Israel after the Exodus ( a judgment wholly in accord with the tenor of the narratives ) .
While all the Levites ( and only Levites ) were to be devoted to sacred services , the special charge of the sanctuary and the altar was committed to the Aaronites alone ( Numbers 18:1 -7 ) .
Aaron died on the summit of the mountain , and the people mourned for him thirty days ( Numbers 20:22 -29 ; compare 33:38 -39 ) .
`` At times Aaron , and at other times Moses , is mentioned first in Scripture -- this is to show that they were of equal rank , '' says Mekilta , who strongly implies this when introducing in Aaron record of renowned men the glowing description of Aaron 's ministration .
Aaron did as commanded ; and they entered the cave , where was prepared a bed around which angels stood .
Indeed , Aaron was to find Aaron reward , says Shimon bar Yochai ; for that heart which had leaped with joy over Aaron younger brother 's rise to glory greater than Aaron was decorated with the Urim and Thummim , which were to `` be upon Aaron 's heart when Aaron goeth in before the Lord '' ( Canticles Rabbah i. 10 ) .
This is further illustrated by the tradition preserved in Abot de-Rabbi Natan 12 , Sanhedrin 6b , and elsewhere , according to which Aaron was an ideal priest of the people , far more beloved for Aaron kindly ways than was Moses .
Especially significant are the words represented as being spoken by God after the princes of the Twelve Tribes had brought their dedication offerings into the newly reared Tabernacle : `` Say to thy brother Aaron : Greater than the gifts of the princes is thy gift ; for thou art called upon to kindle the light , and , while the sacrifices shall last only as long as the Temple lasts , thy light shall last forever '' .
The Qur ` an states that Aaron was the brother of Moses and like Aaron brother Aaron too was a prophet who was tasked by God with saving the Israelites from the tyrannical Pharaoh .
Many Protestant churches are now organized by either congregational or presbyterian church polities , both descended from the writings of John Calvin , a Protestant reformer working and writing independently following the break with the Roman Catholic Church precipitated by The Ninety-Five Theses of Martin Luther .
This practical eminence of Constantinople in the East is evident , first at the First Council of Constantinople 381 , and then ecumenically at the Council of Chalcedon in 451 .
Beginning with John the Faster , the Bishop of Constantinople ( John IV , 582-595 ) adopted as a formal title for himself the by-then-customary honorific , Ecumenical Patriarch ( `` pre-eminent father for the civilized world '' ) over the strong objections of Rome : a title based on the political prestige of Constantinople and its economic and cultural centrality in the Empire .
The sometimes subtle differences between Eastern and Western conceptions of authority and Episcopal polity exercise produced a gradually widening rift between the Churches which continued with some occasional relief throughout the following centuries until the final rupture of the Great Schism ( marked by two dates : 16 July 1054 , and the Council of Florence in 1439 ) .
The See of Rome , as the sole unbroken line of apostolic authority , descending from St. Peter ( the `` prince and head of the apostles '' ) , is a visible sign and instrument of communion among the college of bishops and therefore also of the local churches around the world .
Both the Greek and Coptic Orthodox churches have a bishop in Alexandria , both of whom trace their apostolic succession back to the Apostle Mark .
The legislation of Henry VIII effectively establishing the independence from Rome of the Church of England , did not alter Episcopal polity constitutional or pastoral structures .
On the one hand , the seventeenth century divine , John Cosin , held that episcopal authority is jure divino , but that Episcopal polity stemmed from `` apostolic practice and the customs of the Church ... not absolute precept that either Christ or His Apostles gave about it '' ( a view maintained also by Hooker ) .
There is no international juridical authority in Anglicanism , although the tradition 's common experience of episcopacy , symbolised by the historical link with the See of Canterbury , along with a common and complex liturgical tradition , has provided a measure of unity .
Churches that are members of the Anglican Communion are episcopal churches in polity , and some are named `` Episcopal polity '' .
The Roman Catholic Church , the Old Catholic Churches ( in full communion with , but not members of , the Anglican Communion ) , and the Eastern Orthodox churches are recognized , and also their bishops , by Anglicans .
For example , in the United Methodist Church , bishops are elected for life , can serve up to two terms in a specific conference ( three if special permission is given ) , are responsible for ordaining and appointing clergy to pastor churches , perform many administrative duties , preside at the annual sessions of the regional Conferences and at the quadrennial meeting of the worldwide General Conference , have authority for teaching and leading Episcopal polity on matters of social and doctrinal import , and serve to represent the denomination in ecumenical gatherings .
As mentioned , the Lutheran Church in Sweden and Finland are exceptions , claiming apostolic succession in a pattern somewhat like the Anglican churches .
Although Episcopal polity never uses the term , The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ) is episcopal , rather than presbyterian or congregational , in the sense that Episcopal polity has a strict hierarchy of leadership from the local bishop up to a single prophet/president , believed to be personally authorized and guided by Jesus Christ .
Local congregations ( branches , wards , and stakes ) have de jure boundaries by which members are allocated , and membership records are centralized .
Between Belarusian and Ukrainian there is the Polesian dialect , which shares features from the both languages .
East Polesian is a transitional variety between Belarusian and Ukrainian on the one hand , and between South Russian and Ukrainian on the other hand .
Central or Middle Russian ( with East Slavic languages Moscow sub-dialect ) , the transitional step between the North and the South , became a base for the Russian literary standard .
Northern Russian with East Slavic languages predecessor , the Old Novgorod dialect , has many original and archaic features .
Ruthenian , the mixed Belarusian-Ukrainian literary language with Church Slavonic substratum and Polish adstratum , was an official language in Belarus and Ukraine until the end of the 17th century .
Therefore , a crucial differentiation has to be made between the history of the East Slavic dialects and that of the literary languages employed by the Eastern Slavs .
Throughout the Middle Ages ( and in some way up to the present day ) there existed a duality between the Church Slavonic language used as some kind of ` higher ' register ( not only ) in religious texts and the popular tongue used as a ` lower ' register for secular texts .
In the Russian Empire the official view was that the Belarusian ( `` White Russian '' ) , Ukrainian ( `` Little Russian '' ) , and Russian ( `` Great Russian '' ) languages were dialects of one common `` Russian '' language ( the common languages of Eastern Slavic countries ) .
Elizabeth Gracen , however , eluded the subpoena and was at one point able to avoid it because was being filmed out of the country .
Epicurus parents , Neocles and Chaerestrate , both Athenian-born , and Epicurus father a citizen , had emigrated to the Athenian settlement on the Aegean island of Samos about ten years before Epicurus 's birth in February 341 BCE .
There Epicurus founded The Garden , a school named for the garden Epicurus owned that served as the school 's meeting place , about halfway between the locations of two other schools of philosophy , the Stoa and the Academy .
Epicurus ' school , which was based in the garden of Epicurus house and thus called `` The Garden '' , had a small but devoted following in Epicurus lifetime .
Epicurus is a key figure in the development of science and the scientific method because of Epicurus insistence that nothing should be believed , except that which was tested through direct observation and logical deduction .
Epicurus statement of the Ethic of Reciprocity as the foundation of ethics is the earliest in Ancient Greece , and Epicurus differs from the formulation of utilitarianism by Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill by emphasizing the minimization of harm to oneself and others as the way to maximize happiness .
Epicurus ' philosophy is based on the theory that all good and bad derive from the sensations of what Epicurus defined as pleasure and pain : What is good is what is pleasurable , and what is bad is what is painful .
Epicurus ' teachings were introduced into medical philosophy and practice by the Epicurean doctor Asclepiades of Bithynia , who was the first physician who introduced Greek medicine in Rome .
From this doctrine arose the Epicurean epitaph : Non fui , fui , non sum , non curo ( Epicurus was not ; Epicurus was ; Epicurus am not ; Epicurus do not care ) -- which is inscribed on the gravestones of Epicurus followers and seen on many ancient gravestones of the Roman Empire .
This argument was a type favoured by the ancient Greek skeptics , and may have been wrongly attributed to Epicurus by Lactantius , who , from Epicurus Christian perspective , regarded Epicurus as an atheist .
Epicurus emphasized the senses in Epicurus epistemology , and Epicurus Principle of Multiple Explanations ( `` if several theories are consistent with the observed data , retain them all '' ) is an early contribution to the philosophy of science .
This triad , as well as the egalitarianism of Epicurus , was carried forward into the American freedom movement and Declaration of Independence , by the American founding father , Thomas Jefferson , as `` all men are created equal '' and endowed with certain `` inalienable rights , '' such as `` life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness '' .
In An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding , David Hume uses Epicurus as a character for explaining the impossibility of our knowing God to be any greater or better than Epicurus creation proves Epicurus to be .
Karl Marx 's doctoral thesis was on `` The Difference Between the Democritean and Epicurean Philosophy of Nature '' .
According to Diskin Clay , Epicurus Epicurus established a custom of celebrating Epicurus birthday annually with common meals , befitting Epicurus stature as hero ctistes ( or founding hero ) of the Garden .
Epicurus ' cheerful demeanor , as Epicurus continued to work despite dying from a painful stone blockage of Epicurus urinary tract lasting a fortnight , according to Epicurus successor Hermarchus and reported by Epicurus biographer Diogenes Laertius , further enhanced Epicurus status among Epicurus followers .
In Canto X Circle 6 ( `` Where the heretics lie '' ) of Dante 's Inferno , Epicurus and Epicurus followers are criticized for supporting a materialistic ideal when they are mentioned to have been condemned to the Circle of Heresy .
Epicurus 's technically hedonistic views and philosophical teachings , though opposed to the Hedonists of Epicurus time , countered Jewish scripture , the strictly monotheistic conception of God in Judaism and the Jewish belief in the afterlife and the world to come .
The Christian censorship of the Jewish Talmud in the aftermath of the Disputation of Barcelona and during the Spanish Inquisition and Roman Inquisition , let the term spread within the Jewish classical texts , since Roman Catholic Church censors replaced terms like Minim ( `` sectarians '' , coined on the Christians ) with the term Epikorsim or Epicursim , meaning heretics.citation
Most epitaphs are brief records of the family , and perhaps the career , of the deceased , often with an expression of love or respect - `` beloved father of ... '' - but others are more ambitious .
Igor Stravinsky composed in 1958 Epitaphium for flute , clarinet and harp .
Epitaph is a short text honoring a deceased person , strictly speaking that is inscribed on their tombstone or plaque , but also used figuratively .
Though modern epigrams are usually thought of as very short , Greek literary epigram was not always as short as later examples , and the divide between `` epigram '' and `` elegy '' is sometimes indistinct ( Epigram share a characteristic metre , elegiac couplets ) ; all the same , the origin of the genre in inscription exerted a residual pressure to keep things concise .
The term is sometimes used for particularly pointed or much-quoted quotations taken from longer works .
El Cid ( 1043 -- 1099 ) was a Castilian nobleman and military leader in medieval Spain .
This , however , ended up putting El Cid in a difficult position when , in 1072 , Sancho died suddenly without issue , leaving El Cid brother , Alfonso , as El Cid only heir and ruler of the reunified empire .
While there are no contemporary documents proving that El Cid was addressed as Cid , there are many Christian and Arab records addressing El Cid as Campeador , even autographs which prove that El Cid used the cognomen El Cid .
El Cid father , Diego Laínez , was a courtier , bureaucrat , and cavalryman who had fought in several battles .
However , El Cid relatives were not major court officials ; documents show that El Cid 's paternal grandfather , Lain , confirmed only five documents of Ferdinand El Cid 's , El Cid maternal grandfather , Rodrigo Alvarez , certified only two of Sancho II 's , and El Cid 's own father confirmed only one .
Sancho was assassinated in 1072 , as the result of a pact between El Cid brother Alfonso and El Cid sister Urraca .
However , El Cid unauthorized expedition into Granada greatly angered Alfonso , and May 8 , 1080 , was the last time El Cid confirmed a document in King Alfonso 's court .
This is the generally given reason for El Cid exile , although several others are plausible and may have been contributing factors : jealous nobles turning Alfonso against El Cid , Alfonso 's own animosity towards El Cid , and an accusation of pocketing some of the tribute from Seville .
Andalusian Knights found El Cid their foe ill , thirsty and exiled from the court of Alfonso , El Cid was presented before the elderly Yusuf al-Mu ` taman ibn Hud and accepted command of the forces of the Taifa of Zaragoza as their Master .
El Cid was then troubled by the fierce conflicts between the Muladis of Badajoz and the Arabs of Seville .
The Almoravid and Andalusian Taifas , including the armies of Badajoz , Málaga , Granada , Tortosa and Seville , defeated a combined army of León , Aragón and Castile .
Around this time , El Cid , with a combined Christian and Moorish army , began maneuvering in order to create El Cid own fiefdom in the Moorish Mediterranean coastal city of Valencia .
They frequently used unexpected strategies , engaging in what modern generals would call psychological warfare -- waiting for the enemy to be paralyzed with terror and then attacking them suddenly ; distracting the enemy with a small group of soldiers , etc. ( El Cid used this distraction in capturing the town of Castejón as depicted in Cantar de Mio Cid ( The Song of El Cid Cid ) .
Their daughters Cristina and María both married the princes of Carrion , who were of higher nobility ; Cristina to Ramiro , Lord of Monzón , grandson of García Sánchez III of Navarre via an illegitimate son ; María , first ( it is said ) to a prince of Aragon ( presumably the son of Peter I ) and second to Ramón Berenguer III , count of Barcelona .
English orthography , like other alphabetic orthographies , exhibits a set of relationships between speech sounds and the corresponding written words .
For example , the word cat consists of three letters ⟨ c ⟩ , ⟨ a ⟩ , and ⟨ t ⟩ , in which ⟨ c ⟩ represents the sound , ⟨ a ⟩ the sound , and ⟨ t ⟩ the sound .
The same letter ( or sequence of letters ) may be pronounced in different ways when English orthography occurs in different positions within a word .
Conversely , the digraph ⟨ gh ⟩ is never pronounced in syllable onsets and is almost never pronounced in syllable codas ( the proper name Pittsburgh is an exception ) .
Some researchers such as Brengelman ( 1970 ) , have suggested that , in addition to this marking of word origin , these spellings indicate a more formal level of style or register in a given text , although Rollins ( 2004 ) finds this point to be exaggerated as there would be many exceptions where a word with one of these spellings , such as ⟨ ph ⟩ for ( like telephone ) , could occur in an informal text .
Another example is the pair of homophones plain and plane , where both are pronounced but have two different spellings of the vowel .
Some proponents of spelling reform view homophones as undesirable and would prefer that English orthography were eliminated .
In the pair ban and bane , the ⟨ a ⟩ of ban has the value , whereas the ⟨ a ⟩ of bane is marked by the ⟨ e ⟩ as having the value .
Although the letter ⟨ t ⟩ is pronounced by some speakers with aspiration at the beginning of words , this is never indicated in English orthography , and , indeed , this phonetic detail is probably not noticeable to the average native speaker not trained in phonetics .
English orthography does not always provide an underlying representation ; sometimes English orthography provides an intermediate representation between the underlying form and the surface pronunciation .
This is the case with the spelling of the regular plural morpheme , which is written as either - ⟨ s ⟩ ( as in tick , ticks and mite , mites ) or - ⟨ es ⟩ ( as in box , boxes ) .
For example , café and pâté both have a pronounced final e , which would otherwise be silent under the normal English pronunciation rules .
Italics , with appropriate accents , are generally applied to foreign terms that are uncommonly used in or have not been assimilated into English : for example , adiós , crème brûlée , pièce de résistance , , über ( Übermensch ) , vis-à-vis .
The New Yorker and Technology Review magazines still use English orthography for this purpose , even though English orthography is increasingly rare in modern English .
For example , the letter b was added to debt ( originally dette ) in an attempt to link English orthography to the Latin debitum , and the letter s in island is a misplaced attempt to link English orthography to Latin insula instead of the Old English word īġland , which is the true origin of the English word .
The regular spelling system of Old English was swept away by the Norman Conquest , and English English orthography was supplanted in some spheres by Norman French for three centuries , eventually emerging with English orthography spelling much influenced by French .
The spelling of Middle English , such as in the writings of Geoffrey Chaucer , is very irregular and inconsistent , with the same word being spelled in different ways , sometimes even in the same sentence .
The most notorious group of letters in English orthography , ough , is commonly pronounced at least ten different ways , six of which are illustrated in the construct , Though the tough cough and hiccough plough him through , which is quoted by Robert A. Heinlein in The Door into Summer to illustrate the difficulties facing automated speech transcription and reading .
Besides silent e , another strategy for indicating tense and tense-r vowels , is the addition of another orthographic vowel forming a digraph .
For example , the word man has a lax a pronounced , but with the addition of i ( as the digraph ai ) in the word main the a is marked as tense and pronounced .
Besides the 20 basic vowel spellings , Rollins ( 2004 ) has a reduced vowel category ( representing the sounds ) and a miscellaneous category ( representing the sounds and + V , + V , V+V ) .
Æthelred the Unready , or Æthelred II ( circa 968 -- 23 April 1016 ) , was king of England ( 978 -- 1013 and 1014 -- 1016 ) .
Æthelred the Unready first name , composed of the elements æðele , meaning `` noble '' , and ræd , meaning `` counsel '' or `` advice '' , is typical of the compound names of those who belonged to the royal House of Wessex , and it characteristically alliterates with the names of Æthelred the Unready ancestors , like Æthelwulf ( `` noble-wolf '' ) , Ælfred ( `` elf-counsel '' ) , Edward ( `` rich-protection '' ) , and Edgar ( `` rich-spear '' ) .
In the view of Oxford professor Chris Wickham , Æthelred was one of the most forceful kings of the tenth century , who ended the control of every one of the major magnate families over their ealdormanries in the two decades after 985 , and although this was ultimately to prove to Æthelred the Unready disadvantage , it is significant that Æthelred the Unready maintained the strength to push all of them into private life in spite of the military crisis of the period .
In the end , Edward 's supporters proved the more powerful and persuasive , and Æthelred the Unready was crowned king at Kingston upon Thames before the year was out .
Stenton offers a summary of the earliest account of Edward 's murder , which comes from a work praising the life of Saint Oswald of Worcester : `` On the surface Æthelred the Unready Edward 's relations with Æthelred Æthelred the Unready half-brother and Ælfthryth Æthelred the Unready stepmother were friendly , and Æthelred the Unready was visiting them informally when Æthelred the Unready was killed .
No one was punished for a part in the crime , and Æthelred , who was crowned a month after the murder , began to reign in an atmosphere of suspicion which destroyed the prestige of the crown .
When Æthelwold died , on 1 August 984 , Æthelred deeply lamented the loss , and Æthelred the Unready wrote later in a charter from 993 that the event had deprived the country of one `` whose industry and pastoral care administered not only to Æthelred the Unready interest but also to that of all inhabitants of the country '' .
A period of six years then passed before , in 988 , another coastal attack is recorded as having taken place to the south-west , though here a famous battle was fought between the invaders and the thegns of Devon .
Before they the Danes had left their camp on the island , Byrhtnoth , with Æthelred the Unready retainers and a force of local militia , had taken possession of the landward end of the causeway .
Refusing a demand for tribute , shouted across the water while the tide was high , Byrhtnoth drew up Æthelred the Unready men along the bank , and waited for the ebb .
This was the first of a series of crushing defeats felt by the English : beaten first by Danish raiders , and later by organised Danish armies .
Olaf then left England for Norway and never returned , though `` other component parts of the Viking force appear to have decided to stay in England , for it is apparent from the treaty that some had chosen to enter into King Æthelred 's service as mercenaries , based presumably on the Isle of Wight '' .
This sudden relief from attack Æthelred used to gather Æthelred the Unready thoughts , resources , and armies : the fleet 's departure in 1000 `` allowed Æthelred to carry out a devastation of Strathclyde , the motive for which is part of the lost history of the north '' .
In Stenton 's view : `` The history of England in the next generation was really determined between 1009 and 1012 ... the ignominious collapse of the English defence caused a loss of morale which was irreparable '' .
The Danish army of 1009 , led by Thorkell the Tall and Æthelred the Unready brother Hemming , was the most formidable force to invade England since Æthelred became king .
In August 1015 , Æthelred the Unready returned to find a complex and volatile situation unfolding in England .
The subsequent war between Edmund and Canute ended in a decisive victory for Canute at the Battle of Ashingdon on 18 October 1016 .
Though the failures of Æthelred the Unready government will always put Æthelred 's reign in the shadow of the reigns of kings Edgar , Aethelstan , and Alfred , historians ' current impression of Æthelred 's personal character is certainly not as unflattering as it once was : '' Æthelred 's misfortune as a ruler was owed not so much to any supposed defects of Æthelred the Unready imagined character , as to a combination of circumstances which anyone would have found difficult to control '' .
The ` legend ' of an Anglo-Saxon origin to the jury was first challenged seriously by Heinrich Brunner in 1872 , who claimed that evidence of the jury was only seen for the first time during the reign of Henry II , some 200 years after the end of the Anglo-Saxon period , and that the practice had originated with the Franks , who in turn had influenced the Normans , who thence introduced it to England .
Edward Elgar ( 2 June 1857 -- 23 February 1934 ) was an English composer , many of whose works have entered the British and international classical concert repertoire .
She inspired Edward Elgar both musically and socially , but Edward Elgar struggled to achieve success until Edward Elgar forties , when after a series of moderately successful works Edward Elgar Enigma Variations ( 1899 ) became immediately popular in Britain and overseas .
The first of Edward Elgar Pomp and Circumstance Marches ( 1901 ) is well known in the English-speaking world .
Between 1914 and 1925 , Edward Elgar conducted a series of acoustic recordings of Edward Elgar works .
In Edward Elgar first trips abroad , Elgar visited Paris in 1880 and Leipzig in 1882 .
The Variations have amused Edward Elgar because Edward Elgar 've labelled them with the nicknames of Edward Elgar particular friends ... that is to say Edward Elgar 've written the variations each one to represent the mood of the ` party ' ( the person ) ... and have written what Edward Elgar think they would have written -- if they were asses enough to compose '' .
The enigma is that , although there are fourteen variations on the `` original theme '' , there is another overarching theme , never identified by Elgar , which Edward Elgar said `` runs through and over the whole set '' but is never heard .
Even the dedicatee of Falstaff , the conductor Landon Ronald , confessed privately that Edward Elgar could not `` make head or tail of the piece , '' while the musical scholar Percy Scholes wrote of Falstaff that it was a `` great work '' but , `` so far as public appreciation goes , a comparative failure '' .
In contrast with the First Symphony and its hundred performances in just over a year , the Cello Concerto did not have a second performance in London for more than a year .
With no public demand for new works , and deprived of Alice 's constant support and inspiration , Edward Elgar allowed Edward Elgar to be deflected from composition .
In Edward Elgar younger days , Elgar had been an enthusiastic bicyclist , buying Royal Sunbeam bicycles for Edward Elgar and Edward Elgar wife in 1903 ( Edward Elgar named Edward Elgar `` Mr. Phoebus ) '' As an elderly widower , Edward Elgar enjoyed being driven about the countryside by Edward Elgar chauffeur .
Fred Gaisberg of HMV , who produced Elgar 's recordings , set up a series of sessions to capture on disc the composer 's interpretations of Edward Elgar major orchestral works , including the Enigma Variations , Falstaff , the first and second symphonies , and the cello and violin concertos .
After World War II , the 1932 recording of the Violin Concerto with the teenage Menuhin as soloist remained available on 78 and later on LP , but the other recordings were out of the catalogues for some years .
After Edward Elgar death , Percy M. Young , in cooperation with the BBC and Edward Elgar daughter Carice , produced a version of The Spanish Lady , which was issued on CD .
Edward Elgar early adult works included violin and piano pieces , music for the wind quintet in which Edward Elgar and Edward Elgar brother played between 1878 -- 81 , and music of many types for the Powick Asylum band .
Diana McVeagh in Grove 's Dictionary finds many embryonic Elgarian touches in these pieces , but few of them are regularly played , except Salut d'Amour and ( as arranged decades later into The Wand of Youth Suites ) some of the childhood sketches .
Edward Elgar best-known works were composed within the twenty-one years between 1899 and 1920 .
In the South ( Alassio ) ( 1903 -- 1904 ) , although designated by Edward Elgar as a concert-overture , is , according to Kennedy , really a tone poem and the longest continuous piece of purely orchestral writing Edward Elgar had essayed .
The work reveals Edward Elgar continuing progress in writing sustained themes and orchestral lines , although some critics , including Kennedy , find that in the middle part `` Elgar 's inspiration burns at less than its brightest '' .
The Violin Concerto , composed in 1909 as Elgar reached the height of Edward Elgar popularity , and written for the instrument dearest to Edward Elgar heart , is lyrical throughout and rhapsodical and brilliant by turns .
On the manuscript Elgar wrote , quoting John Ruskin , `` This is the best of Edward Elgar ; for the rest , Edward Elgar ate , and drank , and slept , loved and hated , like another .
Elgar left the opening of the symphony complete in full score , and those pages , along with others , show Elgar 's orchestration changed markedly from the richness of Edward Elgar pre-war work .
Payne also subsequently produced a performing version of the sketches for a sixth Pomp and Circumstance March , premiered at the Proms in August 2006 .
By contrast , the critic W. J. Turner , in the mid-twentieth century , wrote of Edward Elgar `` Salvation Army symphonies , '' and Herbert von Karajan called the Enigma Variations `` second-hand Brahms '' .
However , in the 1957 centenary symposium , several leading admirers of Edward Elgar express reservations about one or both symphonies .
The Record Guide in 1955 could list only one currently available recording of the First Symphony , none of the Second , one of the Violin Concerto , two of the Cello Concerto , two of the Enigma Variations , one of Falstaff , and none of The Dream of Gerontius .
More than thirty recordings have been made of the First Symphony since 1955 , for example , and more than a dozen of The Dream of Gerontius .
European Investment Fund , established in 1994 , is a European Union agency for the provision of finance to SMEs ( small and medium-sized enterprises ) , headquartered in Luxembourg .
The European Exchange Rate Mechanism attempted to minimize fluctuations between member state currencies and the ECU .
On 1 January 1999 , the euro ( with the code EUR and symbol $ ) replaced the ECU , at the value $ 1 = 1 ECU .
Two of the countries in the ECU basket of currencies , UK and Denmark , did not join the eurozone , and a third , Greece , joined late .
On the other hand , Finland and Austria joined the Eurozone from the beginning although their currencies were not part of the ECU basket ( since they had joined the EU in 1995 , two years after the ECU composition was `` frozen '' ) Due to the ECU being used in some international financial transactions , there was a concern that foreign courts might not recognize the euro as the legal successor to the ECU .
This was unlikely to be a problem , since European Currency Unit is a generally accepted principle of private international law that states determine their currencies , and that therefore states would accept the European Union legislation to that effect .
Of particular importance here were the USA states of Illinois and New York , under whose laws a large proportion of international financial contracts are made .
However , progonists of conspiracy theories state that the ECU actualy stands for Equivalent for Currency in USSR The currency 's symbol , $ ( U +20 A0 ) , comprises an interlaced C and E , which are the initial letters of the phrase ` European Community ' in many European languages .
Six of the states using the EC$ are independent states : Antigua and Barbuda , Dominica , Grenada , Saint Kitts and Nevis , Saint Lucia , and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines .
The raised Braille characters on the upgraded notes feature a Cricket theme in the form of balls and stumps .
These characters have been added to the 10 - , 20 - , 50 - , and 100 dollar notes .
In 1981 , Nobel laureate ( 1965 in chemistry ) and professor of chemistry at Harvard University ( Cambridge , MA ) Robert B. Woodward ( posthumously ) , along with a large number of members from his research group , reported the first stereocontrolled asymmetric chemical synthesis of Erythromycin .
( 12 ) is put through several reactions , including the addition of benzyl thiol , the coupling of enolates , and stereospecific reduction to yield ( 13 ) , which contains the carbon skeleton and stereocenters of the erythronolide A seco acid .
( 13 ) is then subjected to a series of reactions including successive deprotections and acetylization to yield ( 14 ) , a compound that is more likely to yield a lactone .
Gastrointestinal disturbances , such as diarrhea , nausea , abdominal pain , and vomiting , are very common because erythromycin is a motilin agonist .
By binding to the 50s subunit of the bacterial 70s rRNA complex , protein synthesis and subsequent structure and function processes critical for life or replication are inhibited .
If other CYP3A substrates -- drugs that are broken down by CYP3A - such as simvastatin ( Zocor ) , lovastatin ( Mevacor ) , or atorvastatin ( Lipitor ) -- are taken concomitantly with erythromycin , levels of the substrates will increase , often causing adverse effects .
Another group of CYP3A4 substrates are drugs used for migraine such as ergotamine and dihydroergotamine ; their adverse effects may be more pronounced if erythromycin is associated .
In general , the simultaneous use of two different erythromycin derivatives ( such as clindamycin and Mitemcinal ) should be avoided as drugs in this macrolide family possess a common mechanism of action .
Environmental law is a collective term describing international treaties ( conventions ) , statutes , regulations , and common law or national legislation ( where applicable ) that operates to regulate the interaction of humanity and the natural environment , toward the purpose of reducing the impacts of human activity .
The recognition that Environmental law was fragile and in need of special legal protections , the translation of that recognition into legal structures , and the development of those structures into a larger body of `` environmental law '' did not occur until about the 1960s .
Debates over the necessity , fairness , cost , and need for environmental regulation continue to this day .
Nonetheless ; the cost benefit analysis for society at large , between having laws that protect citizens from toxic or dangerous living and work conditions ( such as those that existed in the early industrial 1900 's ) clearly comes down on the side of regulation .
Their duties include `` the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the natural environment , including water , air and soil quality ; renewable resources , including migratory birds and other non-domestic flora and fauna ; water ; meteorology ; '' The Environmental Protection Act is the main piece of Canadian environmental legislation that was put into place March 31 , 2000 .
In conjunction with this need , the principle of `` Buen Vivir , '' or good living -- focused on social , environmental and spiritual wealth versus material wealth -- gained popularity among citizens and was incorporated into the new constitution .
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) is the most well-known federal agency , with jurisdiction over many of the country 's national air , water and waste and hazardous substance programs .
Other federal agencies , such as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and National Park Service pursue primarily conservation missions , while still others , such as the United States Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management , tend to focus more on beneficial use of natural resources .
The Asian Environmental Compliance and Enforcement Network ( AECEN ) is an agreement between 16 Asian countries dedicated to improving cooperation with environmental laws in Asia .
The three basic environmental principles that the Basic Environmental Law follows are `` the blessings of Environmental law should be enjoyed by the present generation and succeeded to the future generations , a sustainable society should be created where environmental loads by human activities are minimized , and Japan should contribute actively to global environmental conservation through international cooperation '' .
The Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environmental Programme ( SPREP ) is an international organization between Australia , the Cook Islands , FMS , Fiji , France , Kiribati , Marshall Islands , Nauru , New Zealand , Niue , Palau , PNG , Samoa , Solomon Island , Tonga , Tuvalu , USA , and Vanuatu .
While the bodies that proposed , argued , agreed upon and ultimately adopted existing international agreements vary according to each agreement , certain conferences , including 1972 's United Nations Conference on the Human Environment , 1983 's World Commission on Environment and Development , 1992 's United Nations Conference on Environment and Development and 2002 's World Summit on Sustainable Development have been particularly important .
On 1 September 2010 , Eurostar was incorporated as a single corporate entity called Eurostar International Limited ( EIL ) , replacing the joint operation between EUKL , SNCF and NMBS/SNCB .
The history of Eurostar can be traced to the 1986 choice of a rail tunnel to provide a cross-channel link between Britain and France .
France had been operating high-speed TGV services since 1981 , and had begun construction of a new high-speed line between Paris and the Channel Tunnel , LGV Nord ; French TGV technology was chosen as the basis for the new trains .
Other reasons that have been suggested for these services having never been run were both government policies and the disruptive privatisation of British Rail .
Of all French high-speed lines , LGV Nord sees the widest variety of high-speed rolling stock and is quite busy ; a proposed cutoff bypassing Lille , which would reduce Eurostar journey times to Paris , is called LGV Picardie .
The Channel Tunnel is a crucial part of the route as Eurostar is the only rail connection between Great Britain and the European mainland .
Journey times between London and Brussels were improved when an 88 km Belgian high-speed line , HSL 1 , opened on 14 December 1997 .
Competition between Eurostar and airline services was a large factor in ticket prices being reduced from the initial levels .
Eurostar best punctuality record was 97.35 % , between 16 and 22 August 2004 .
An advantage held by Eurostar is the convenience and speed of the service : with shorter check-in times than at most airports and hence quicker boarding and less queueing and high punctuality , Eurostar takes less time to travel between central London and central Paris by high-speed rail than it does by air .
and that Eurostar remaining carbon emissions are now offset , making Eurostar services carbon neutral .
Further expansion of the high-speed rail network in Europe , such as the HSL-Zuid line between Belgium and the Netherlands , continues to bring more destinations within rail-competitive range , giving Eurostar the possibility of opening up new services in future .
Drivers are trained in techniques to achieve maximum energy efficiency , and lighting has been minimised ; the provider of the bulk of the energy for the Channel Tunnel has been switched to nuclear power stations in France .
The Eurostar logos have been removed from these sets , but the base colours of white , black , and yellow remain .
The nomination of Siemens would see Eurostar break into the French high-speed market for the first time , as all French and French subsidiary high-speed operators use TGV derivatives produced by Alstom .
However , the breakdowns in the tunnel , which resulted in cessation of service and inconvenience to thousands of passengers , in the run-up to Christmas 2009 , proved a public-relations disaster .
The first preview train , carrying 400 members of the press and media , was delayed for two hours by technical problems .
Questions were raised at the time about the ability of the train and tunnel electronics to withstand the mix of snow , salt and ice which collect in the tunnels during periods of extreme cold .
During the December 2009 European snowfall , four Eurostar trains broke down inside the Channel Tunnel , after leaving France , and one in Kent on 18 December .
On 15 February 2010 , services between Brussels and London were interrupted following the Halle train collision , this time after the dedicated HSL 1 lines in the suburbs of the Belgian capital were blocked by debris from a serious train crash on the suburban commuter lines alongside .
Between 15 and 20 April , Eurostar put on 33 additional trains and carried 165,000 passengers -- 50,000 more than had been scheduled to travel during this period .
Alternatively , future loans of the North of London sets to other operators would enable the trains to operate at their full speed , unlike GNER 's previous loan between 2000 and 2005 , where the trains were limited to on regular track .
LGV Picardie is a proposed high-speed line between Paris and Calais via Amiens .
By cutting off the corner of the LGV Nord at Lille , Eurostar would enable Eurostar trains to save 20 minutes on the journey between Paris and Calais , bringing the London -- Paris journey time under 2 hours .
Eurostar is a single corporate entity called Eurostar International Limited ( EIL ) , replacing the joint operation between EUKL , SNCF and NMBS/SNCB .
Eurostar is the only rail connection between Great Britain and the European mainland .
Equinox occurs twice a year ( around 20 March and 22 September ) , when the tilt of the Earth 's axis is inclined neither away from nor towards the Sun , the center of the Sun being in the same plane as the Earth 's equator .
The name `` equinox '' is derived from the Latin aequus ( equal ) and nox ( night ) , because around Equinox , night and day are about equal length .
Since a Julian year ( 365.25 days ) is slightly longer than an actual year the calendar drifted with respect to the equinox , such that the equinox was occurring on about 21 March in AD 300 and by AD 1500 Equinox had reached 11 March .
The days of 29 February of the years AD 100 , AD 200 , AD 300 , and the day created by the irregular application of leap years between the assassination of Caesar and the decree of Augustus re-arranging the calendar in AD 8 , remained in effect .
These effects make the day about 14 minutes longer than the night at the Equator and longer still towards the Poles .
In the half year centered on the December solstice , the Sun rises south of east and sets south of west and the durations of day and night are reversed .
Equinox is at ecliptic longitude 180 ° and at right ascension 12h .
Eugene Paul `` E. P. '' Eugene Wigner , ForMemRS , was a Hungarian American theoretical physicist and mathematician .
Eugene Wigner received a share of the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1963 `` for Eugene Wigner contributions to the theory of the atomic nucleus and the elementary particles , particularly through the discovery and application of fundamental symmetry principles '' ; the other half of the award was shared between Maria Goeppert-Mayer and J. Hans D. Jensen .
It was Eugene Wigner who first identified Xe-135 `` poisoning '' in nuclear reactors , and for this reason it is sometimes referred to as Eugene Wigner poisoning .
Wigner worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physical Chemistry and Elektrochemistry ( now the Fritz Haber Institute ) , and there Eugene Wigner met Michael Polanyi , who became , after László Rátz , Wigner 's greatest teacher .
Eugene Wigner argued that biology and cognition could be the origin of physical concepts , as we humans perceive them , and that the happy coincidence that mathematics and physics were so well matched , seemed to be `` unreasonable '' and hard to explain .
Eugene Wigner also won the Enrico Fermi award , and the National Medal of Science .
Erasmus Reinhold ( October 22 , 1511 -- February 19 , 1553 ) was a German astronomer and mathematician , considered to be the most influential astronomical pedagogue of Erasmus Reinhold generation .
These astronomical tables helped to disseminate calculation methods of Copernicus throughout the Empire , however , Gingerich notes that they showed a `` notable lack of commitment '' to heliocentricity and were `` carefully framed '' to be independent of the movement of the Earth .
An earthquake ( also known as a quake , tremor or temblor ) is the result of a sudden release of energy in the Earth 's crust that creates seismic waves .
The seismicity , seismism or seismic activity of an area refers to the frequency , type and size of Earthquake experienced over a period of time .
In Earthquake most general sense , the word earthquake is used to describe any seismic event -- whether natural or caused by humans -- that generates seismic waves .
Most fault surfaces do have such asperities and this leads to a form of stick-slip behaviour .
Once the fault has locked , continued relative motion between the plates leads to increasing stress and therefore , stored strain energy in the volume around the fault surface .
Normal and reverse faulting are examples of dip-slip , where the displacement along the fault is in the direction of dip and movement on them involves a vertical component .
The topmost , brittle part of the Earth 's crust , and the cool slabs of the tectonic plates that are descending down into the hot mantle , are the only parts of our planet which can store elastic energy and release Earthquake in fault ruptures .
The longest earthquake ruptures on strike-slip faults , like the San Andreas Fault ( 1857 , 1906 ) , the North Anatolian Fault in Turkey ( 1939 ) and the Denali Fault in Alaska ( 2002 ) , are about half to one third as long as the lengths along subducting plate margins , and those along normal faults are even shorter .
Another example is the strongly oblique convergent plate boundary between the Arabian and Eurasian plates where Earthquake runs through the northwestern part of the Zagros mountains .
Research work has shown a robust correlation between small tidally induced forces and non-volcanic tremor activity .
With the rapid growth of mega-cities such as Mexico City , Tokyo and Tehran , in areas of high seismic risk , some seismologists are warning that a single quake may claim the lives of up to 3 million people .
On average , the kilometer distance to the earthquake is the number of seconds between the P and S wave times 8 .
Tsunamis are long-wavelength , long-period sea waves produced by the sudden or abrupt movement of large volumes of water .
Earthquakes that caused the greatest loss of life , while powerful , were deadly because of their proximity to either heavily populated areas or the ocean , where earthquakes often create tsunamis that can devastate communities thousands of kilometers away .
Thales of Miletus , who lived from 625 -- 547 ( BCE ) was the only documented person who believed that Earthquake were caused by tension between the earth and water .
Other theories existed , including the Greek philosopher Anaxamines ' ( 585 -- 526 BCE ) beliefs that short incline episodes of dryness and wetness caused seismic activity .
The term Esotericism first appeared in English in the 1701 History of Philosophy by Thomas Stanley , in his description of the mystery-school of Pythagoras ; the Pythagoreans were divided into `` exoteric '' ( under training ) , and `` Esotericism '' ( admitted into the `` inner '' circle ) .
The corresponding noun `` esotericism '' was coined in French by Jacques Matter in 1828 and popularized by Eliphas Levi in the 1850s .
Esotericism frequently suggest that there is a concordance between different religious traditions : best example is the belief in prisca theologia ( ancient theology ) or in philosophia perennis ( perennial philosophy ) .
Esotericism is only in a later epoch that the seat of the primordial tradition , transferred to other regions , was able to become either Western or Eastern .
Since the field of esotericism is not a single tradition but a vast array of often unrelated figures and movements , there is no single historical thread underlying them all .
The terms `` Gnosticism '' and `` Gnosis '' refer to a family of religious movements which claimed to possess secret knowledge ( gnosis ) .
The Ismaili Muslims also stress a distinction between the inner and the outer .
Ismaili Islam also has some of the characteristics associated with esotericism as defined by Faivre , e.g. the belief in an intermediate spiritual sphere mediating between humans and the divine .
In order to distinguish Esotericism currents based primarily on sources from late Antiquity and the European Middle Ages , from e.g.
During the Italian Renaissance , for example , translators such as Ficino and Pico della Mirandola turned their attention to the classical literature of Neoplatonism , and what was thought to be the pre-Mosaic tradition of Hermeticism .
Anthroposophy , which was founded by Rudolf Steiner in the early part of the 20th century , includes Esotericism versions of education , agriculture , and medicine .
Finally , it can be noted that Carl Gustav Jung can be seen as an exponent of esotericism : his writings concern Esotericism subject matter such as alchemy , and rephrased the concept of correspondences in a modern , psychologizing terminology in his theory of synchronicity .
The Universiteit van Amsterdam ( UvA ) is the world 's first academic institution to have created a complete program for research and teaching in the field of Western Esotericism.None
Secondly , Hanegraaff follows a distinction between an `` emic '' and an `` etic '' approach to religious studies .
`` The principal theoretical tool to safeguard scientific legitimity in this situation is the distinction between emic and etic .
Esotericism , given all Esotericism varied forms and Esotericism inherently multidimensional nature , can not be conveyed without going beyond purely historical information : at minimum , the study of esotericism , and in particular mysticism , requires some degree of imaginative participation in what one is studying '' .
The political philosopher Leo Strauss , in his 1952 book Persecution and the Art of Writing , advances the argument that some philosophers write in such a way as to avoid persecution by political or religious authorities .
Some of Strauss 's students ( most notably Harvey Mansfield and Seth Benardete ) have proposed that many writers of the Western Intellectual Tradition use a philosophical esotericism not only to protect themselves from persecution by the present political and religious order , but also to protect the present political and religious order from a politicized application of their philosophical reasoning .
According to Japan 's 1947 constitution , which dissolved the Empire of Japan , Emperor of Japan is `` the symbol of the state and of the unity of the people '' .
Emperor of Japan is also the highest authority of the Shinto religion as Emperor of Japan and Emperor of Japan family are said to be direct descendants of Amaterasu .
The earliest Emperor recorded in Kojiki and Nihon Shoki is Emperor Jimmu .
The position of emperor is a territory-independent phenomenon -- the emperor is the emperor , even if Emperor of Japan has followers only in one province ( as was the case sometimes with the southern and northern courts ) .
In keeping with the analogy , they even used the term `` Emperor '' in reference to the shogun/regent , e.g. in the case of Toyotomi Hideyoshi , who missionaries called `` Emperor Taicosama '' ( from Taiko and the honorific sama ) .
After the United States Navy Commodore Matthew C. Perry 's Black Ships forcibly opened Japan to foreign trade and the shogunate proved incapable of hindering the `` barbarian '' interlopers , the Emperor Kōmei began to assert Emperor of Japan politically .
By the early 1860s , the relationship between the imperial court and the Shogunate was changing radically .
The domains of Satsuma and Chōshū , historic enemies of the Tokugawa , used this turmoil to unite their forces and won an important military victory outside of Kyoto against Tokugawa forces .
`` heavenly sovereign '' ) , which is used exclusively to refer to Emperor of Japan of Japan , and kōtei ( 皇帝 , the title used for Chinese emperors ) , which is used primarily to describe non-Japanese emperors .
The oldest documented use of the word `` tennō '' is on a wooden slat , or mokkan , that was unearthed in Asuka-mura , Nara Prefecture in 1998 and dated back to the reign of Emperor Temmu and Empress Jitō .
After a decree by Emperor Ichijō , some emperors even had two empresses simultaneously ( kōgō and chūgū are the two separate titles for that situation ) .
The reality behind such marriages was an alliance between an imperial prince and a Fujiwara lord , Emperor of Japan father-in-law or grandfather , the latter with Emperor of Japan resources supporting the prince to the throne and most often controlling the government .
The five Fujiwara families , Ichijō , Kujō , Nijō , Konoe , and Takatsukasa , were the primary source of imperial brides from the 8th century to the 19th century , even more often than daughters of the imperial clan itself .
However , Emperor of Japan descendants , including Emperor of Japan successors , were according to records descended from at least one and probably several imperial princesses of the older lineage .
Being a child was apparently a fine property , to better endure tedious duties and to tolerate subjugation to political power-brokers , as well as sometimes to cloak the truly powerful members of the imperial dynasty .
The 1889 Imperial Household Law fixed the succession on male descendants of the imperial line , and specifically excluded female descendants from the succession .
Article 2 of the Constitution of Japan , promulgated in 1947 by influence of the U.S. occupation administration and still in force , provides that `` The Imperial Throne shall be dynastic and succeeded to in accordance with the Imperial Household Law passed by the Diet '' .
Some empires , such as the Holy Roman Empire and the Russian Empire , derived their office from the authority of the Roman Emperors ( translatio imperii ) .
The importance and meaning of coronation ceremonies and regalia also varied within the tradition : for instance Holy Roman Emperors could only be crowned emperor by the pope , which meant the coronation ceremony usually took place in Rome , often several years after these emperors had ascended to the throne ( as `` king '' ) in their home country .
Julius Caesar had been Dictator , an acknowledged and traditional office in Republican Rome .
Augustus , considered the first Roman Emperor , established his by collecting on himself offices , titles , and honours of Republican Rome that had traditionally been distributed to different people , concentrating what had been distributed power in one man .
One of these offices was princeps senatus , ( `` first man of the Senate '' ) and became shortened into Augustus ' chief honorific , Princeps ( usually translated as `` first citizen '' ) form which the modern English word and title prince is descended .
This change was a recognition of the reality that little remained of Imperial authority in the areas that had been the Western Empire , with even Rome and Italy Emperor now ruled by the essentially autonomous Odoacer .
One important distinction between the post Constantine I ( reigned AD 306 -- 337 ) emperors and their pagan predecessors was cesaropapism , the assertion that the Emperor ( or other head of state ) is also the head of the Church .
He wished to maintain his and his family 's Imperial status in the event that the Holy Roman Empire should be dissolved , as Emperor indeed was in 1806 when an Austrian-led army suffered a humiliating defeat at the Battle of Austerlitz .
In Emperor final simplified form , the title read `` Emperor and Autocrat of all Bulgarians and Romans '' ( Tsar i samodarzhets na vsichki balgari i gartsi in the modern vernacular ) .
It should be noted that after Bulgaria obtained full independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1908 , Emperor monarch , who was previously styled `` Knyaz '' , i.e. , Prince , took the traditional title of `` Tsar '' which in Bulgarian means King and was recognized internationally as such .
Emperor was only employed by Stefan Uroš IV Dušan and his son Stefan Uroš V in Serbia ( until his death in 1371 ) , after which Emperor became extinct .
Napoleon relinquished the title of Emperor of the French on 6 April and again on 11 April 1814 .
Napoleon 's infant son , Napoleon II , was recognized by the Council of Peers , as Emperor from the moment of his father 's abdication , and therefore reigned ( as opposed to ruled ) as Emperor for fifteen days , 22 June to 7 July 1815 .
Along with the Statute of Westminster , 1931 this changed the way the British parliamentary monarchy ruled the overseas dominions , moving from a colonial British Empire towards a new structure for the interaction between the Commonwealth Realms and the Crown .
Later , in 1815 , the Portuguese Prince Regent ( since 1816 king D. João VI ) proclaimed the United Kingdom of Portugal , Brazil and the Algarve , as a union of three kingdoms , lifting Brazil from its colonial status .
After the fall of Napoleon I and the Liberal revolution in Portugal , the Portuguese Royals returned to Europe ( 1820 ) .
Typically , in the later Vedic age , a Hindu king ( Maharajah ) was only called Samrāṭ after performing the Vedic Rājasūya sacrifice , enabling him by religious tradition to claim superiority over the other kings and princes .
After India was invaded by the Mongol Khans and Turkic Muslims , the rulers of their major states on the subcontinent were titled Sultān , In this manner , the only empress-regnant ever to have actually sat on the throne of Delhi was Razia Sultan .
Emperor was one of the largest Empire ever established in the territory , and , at the height of Emperor power , included the Sanaag region and parts of the northeastern Bari region of the country , an area historically known as Maakhir or the Maakhir Coast .
In ancient Japan , the earliest titles for the sovereign were either ヤマト大王 / 大君 ( yamato ōkimi , Grand King of Yamato ) , 倭王 / 倭国王 ( waō / wakokuō , King of Wa , used externally ) , or 治天下大王 ( amenoshita shiroshimesu ōkimi , Grand King who rules all under heaven , used internally ) .
As early as the 7th century the word 天皇 ( which can be read either as sumera no mikoto , divine order , or as tennō , Heavenly Emperor , the latter being derived from a Tang Chinese term referring to the Pole star around which all other stars revolve ) began to be used .
The reading ` Tennō ' has become the standard title for the sovereign of Japan up to and including the present age .
Emperor is one of the largest Empire ever established in the territory , and , at the height of its power , included the Sanaag region and parts of the northeastern Bari region of the country , an area historically known as Maakhir or the Maakhir Coast .
Egalitarianism -- or , rarely , equalitarianism -- is a trend of thought that favors equality for particular categories of , or for all , living entities .
An early example of equality-of-outcome economic egalitarianism is Xu Xing , a scholar of the Chinese philosophy of Agriculturalism , who supported the fixing of prices , in which all similar goods and services , regardless of differences in quality and demand , are set at exactly the same , unchanging price .
One form is equality of persons in right , sometimes referred to as natural rights , and John Locke is sometimes considered the founder of this form .
There are also those who may say that , whilst the Bible encourages equality , Egalitarianism also encourages law and order and social structure ( parents having authority over their children ; the view that those who work evils are generally lower down the social scale than those who practise good , etc. ) ; these ideas are considered by most to be contrary to the ideals of egalitarianism .
One of the most notable of these are the Hutterite groups of Europe and North America , living in agricultural and collective communities .
For example Major General Charles J. Dunlap , Jr. says that United States Air Force culture includes an egalitarianism bred from officers as warriors who work with small groups of enlisted airmen either as the service crew or onboard crew of their aircraft .
For example , countries such as Japan , Finland and Norway scored highly in social well-being and income equality , while countries such as the United States and United Kingdom scored low in both .
In a follow-up study , Swiss children showed a significant increase in sharing between the ages of 3 and 8 .
However , Thompson et al. theorise that any society consisting of only one perspective , be Egalitarianism egalitarianist , hierarchist , individualist , fatalist or autonomist , will be inherently unstable : the claim is that an interplay between all these perspectives are required if each perspective is to be fulfilling .
Accordingly , egalitarianists have no power except through Egalitarianism presence , unless they ( by definition , reluctantly ) embrace principles which enable them to cooperate with fatalists and hierarchists .
Expert witness , professional witness or judicial expert is Expert witness , who by virtue of education , training , skill , or experience , is believed to have expertise and specialised knowledge in a particular subject beyond that of the average person , sufficient that others may officially and legally rely upon the witness 's specialized ( scientific , technical or other ) opinion about an evidence or fact issue within the scope of his expertise , referred to as Expert witness , as an assistance to the fact-finder .
In Scots Law , Davie v Magistrates of Edinburgh ( 1953 ) provides authority that where Expert witness has particular knowledge or skills in an area being examined by the court , and has been called to court in order to elaborate on that area for the benefit of the court , that witness may give evidence of his opinion on that area .
Under the CPR , Expert witness are usually instructed to produce a joint statement detailing points of agreement and disagreement to assist the court or tribunal .
Senior physicians -- UK , Ireland , and Commonwealth consultants , U.S. attending physicians -- are frequently used in both the civil and criminal courts .
The major route for endocytosis in most cells , and the best-understood , is that mediated by the molecule clathrin .
The best-understood receptors that are found concentrated in coated vesicles of mammalian cells are the LDL receptor ( which removes LDL from circulating blood ) , the transferrin receptor ( which brings ferric ions bound by transferrin into the cell ) and certain hormone receptors ( such as that for EGF ) .
The actual budding-in process , whereby a pit is converted to a vesicle , is carried out by clathrin assisted by a set of cytoplasmic proteins , which includes dynamin and adaptors such as adaptin .
Abbot 's publications , though always of the most thorough and scholarly character , were to a large extent dispersed in the pages of reviews , dictionaries , concordances , texts edited by others , Unitarian controversial treatises , etc. However , Ezra Abbot took a more conspicuous and personal part in the preparation ( with Baptist scholar Horatio B. Hackett ) of the enlarged American edition of Dr. ( afterwards Sir ) William Smith 's Dictionary of the Bible ( 1867-1870 ) , to which Ezra Abbot contributed more than 400 articles , as well as greatly improving the bibliographical completeness of the work .
Ezra Abbot principal single work , representing Ezra Abbot scholarly method and conservative conclusions , was The Authorship of the Fourth Gospel : External Evidences ( 1880 ; 2nd ed .
Edwin Abbott Abbott ( 20 December 1838 -- 12 October 1926 ) , English schoolmaster and theologian , is best known as the author of the novella Flatland ( 1884 ) .
Edwin Abbott Abbott was the eldest son of Edwin Abbott ( 1808 -- 1882 ) , headmaster of the Philological School , Marylebone , and Edwin Abbott Abbott wife , Jane Abbott ( 1806 -- 1882 ) .
Edwin Abbott Abbott was educated at the City of London School and at St John 's College , Cambridge , where Edwin Abbott Abbott took the highest honors in classics , mathematics and theology , and became a fellow of Edwin Abbott Abbott college.Colby 's preface to Abbott 's Flatland states that Abbott was 7th Senior Optime , Senior Classic and 1st Chancellor 's Medallist in 1861 ; William Steadman Aldis was 1st Smith 's Prizeman in 1861 .
Dr. Abbott 's liberal inclinations in theology were prominent both in Edwin Abbott Abbott educational views and in Edwin Abbott Abbott books .
Edwin Abbott Abbott theological writings include three anonymously published religious romances - Philochristus ( 1878 ) , where Edwin Abbott Abbott tried to raise interest in Gospels reading , Onesimus ( 1882 ) , and Silanus the Christian ( 1908 ) .
More weighty contributions are the anonymous theological discussion ( 1886 ) , Philomythus ( 1891 ) , Edwin Abbott Abbott book The Anglican Career of Cardinal Newman ( 1892 ) , and Edwin Abbott Abbott article `` The Gospels '' in the ninth edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica , embodying a critical view which caused considerable stir in the English theological world .
Edwin Abbott Abbott also wrote St Thomas of Canterbury , Edwin Abbott Abbott Death and Miracles ( 1898 ) , Johannine Vocabulary ( 1905 ) , Johannine Grammar ( 1906 ) .
Abbott 's best-known work is Edwin Abbott Abbott 1884 novella Flatland : A Romance of Many Dimensions which describes a two-dimensional world and explores the nature of dimensions .
Edwin Abbott Abbott is the eldest son of Edwin Abbott ( 1808 -- 1882 ) , headmaster of the Philological School , Marylebone , and his wife , Jane Abbott ( 1806 -- 1882 ) .
Emma Abbott ( December 9 , 1850 -- January 5 , 1891 ) was an American operatic soprano and impresario known for Emma Abbott pure , clear voice of great flexibility and volume .
In 1878 Emma Abbott and Emma Abbott husband Eugene Wetherell , organized an opera company known by Emma Abbott name ( the Abbott English Opera Company ) , which toured extensively throughout the United States .
Among the notable roles that Abbott sang with the company are Juliette in Gounod 's Roméo et Juliette , Virginia in Paul et Virginie , Josephine in H. M. S. Pinafore , the title role in Flotow 's Martha , Amina in Bellini 's La Sonnambula , and Violetta in La Traviata , a role which she apparently no longer objected to , however , instead of singing Addio del passato , she made Violeta expire with Nearer , Emma Abbott God , to Thee .
Although the company 's repertoire included works from the French , Italian and English operatic literatures , they always performed in English .
For this reason the company and Abbott were not popular with many music critics who were unhappy with the changes to the standard repertoire .
Shōmu was still a child at the time of Emperor Shōmu father 's death ; thus , Empresses Gemmei and Gensho occupied the throne before Emperor Shōmu acceded .
Earlier Imperial sponsorship of Buddhism , beginning with Prince Shōtoku ( 574 -- 622 ) , had led to a general politicization of the clergy , along with an increase in intrigue and corruption .
In 784 Kammu shifted Emperor Kammu capital from Nara to Nagaoka-kyō in a move that was said to be designed to edge the powerful Nara Buddhist establishments out of state politics -- while the capital moved , the major Buddhist temples , and their officials , stayed put .
Indeed there was a steady stream of edicts issued from 771 right through the period of Kūkai 's studies which , for instance , sought to limit the number of Buddhist priests , and the building of temples .
In 785 the principal architect of the new capital , and royal favourite , Fujiwara no Tanetsugu , was assassinated .
Kammu also sponsored the travels of the monks Saichō and Kūkai to China , from where they returned to found the Japanese branches of , respectively , Tendai and Shingon Buddhism .
His will was set aside , Mary became queen , and Lady Jane Grey was executed .
After 1570 , when the pope declared Elizabeth I of England illegitimate and released Elizabeth I of England subjects from obedience to Elizabeth I of England , several conspiracies threatened Elizabeth I of England life .
Elizabeth I of England is acknowledged as a charismatic performer and a dogged survivor , in an age when government was ramshackle and limited and when monarchs in neighbouring countries faced internal problems that jeopardised their thrones .
Elizabeth I of England older half-sister , Mary , had lost Elizabeth I of England position as a legitimate heir when Henry annulled his marriage to Mary 's mother , Catherine of Aragon , in order to marry Anne and sire a male heir to ensure the Tudor succession .
Elizabeth was baptised on 10 September ; Archbishop Thomas Cranmer , the Marquess of Exeter , the Duchess of Norfolk and the Dowager Marchioness of Dorset stood as Elizabeth I of England four godparents .
When Elizabeth was two years and eight months old , Elizabeth I of England mother was executed on 19 May 1536 .
Elizabeth 's first Lady Mistress , Margaret Bryan , wrote that Elizabeth I of England was `` as toward a child and as gentle of conditions as ever Elizabeth I of England knew any in Elizabeth I of England life '' .
By the time William Grindal became Elizabeth I of England tutor in 1544 , Elizabeth could write English , Latin , and Italian .
Seymour , approaching age 40 but having charm and `` a powerful sex appeal '' , engaged in romps and horseplay with the 14-year-old Elizabeth I of England .
Mary 's closest confidant , Charles V 's ambassador Simon Renard , argued that Elizabeth I of England throne would never be safe while Elizabeth lived ; and the Chancellor , Stephen Gardiner , worked to have Elizabeth put on trial .
Elizabeth I of England lords , the law of nature moves Elizabeth I of England to sorrow for Elizabeth I of England sister ; the burden that is fallen upon Elizabeth I of England makes Elizabeth I of England amazed , and yet , considering Elizabeth I of England am God 's creature , ordained to obey His appointment , Elizabeth I of England will thereto yield , desiring from the bottom of Elizabeth I of England heart that Elizabeth I of England may have assistance of His grace to be the minister of His heavenly will in this office now committed to Elizabeth I of England .
Elizabeth 's open and gracious responses endeared Elizabeth I of England to the spectators , who were `` wonderfully ravished '' .
At the same time , a new Act of Uniformity was passed , which made attendance at church and the use of an adapted version of the 1552 Book of Common Prayer compulsory , though the penalties for recusancy , or failure to attend and conform , were not extreme .
Amy Dudley died in September 1560 from a fall from a flight of stairs and , despite the coroner 's inquest finding of accident , many people suspected Dudley to have arranged Elizabeth I of England death so that he could marry the queen .
An element of piracy and self-enrichment drove Elizabethan seafarers , over which Elizabeth I of England had little control .
After the occupation and loss of Le Havre in 1562 -- 1563 , Elizabeth avoided military expeditions on the continent until 1585 , when Elizabeth I of England sent an English army to aid the Protestant Dutch rebels against Philip II .
In December 1584 , an alliance between Philip II and the French Catholic League at Joinville undermined the ability of Anjou 's brother , Henry III of France , to counter Spanish domination of the Netherlands .
Elizabeth I of England unwillingness to commit Elizabeth I of England to the cause , Leicester 's own shortcomings as a political and military leader and the faction-ridden and chaotic situation of Dutch politics were reasons for the campaign 's failure .
Meanwhile , Sir Francis Drake had undertaken a major voyage against Spanish ports and ships to the Caribbean in 1585 and 1586 , and in 1587 had made a successful raid on Cadiz , destroying the Spanish fleet of war ships intended for the Enterprise of England : Philip II had decided to take the war to England .
Between 1594 and 1603 , Elizabeth faced Elizabeth I of England most severe test in Ireland during the Nine Years ' War , a revolt that took place at the height of hostilities with Spain , who backed the rebel leader , Hugh O'Neill , Earl of Tyrone .
Soon afterwards , a peace treaty was signed between England and Spain .
The Tsar even proposed to Elizabeth I of England once , and during his later reign , asked for a guarantee to be granted asylum in England should his rule be jeopardised .
In February 1603 , the death of Catherine Howard , Countess of Nottingham , the niece of Elizabeth I of England cousin and close friend Catherine , Lady Knollys , came as a particular blow .
The Latin inscription on their tomb , `` Regno consortes & urna , hic obdormimus Elizabetha et Maria sorores , in spe resurrectionis '' , translates to `` Consorts in realm and tomb , here we sleep , Elizabeth I of England and Mary , sisters , in hope of resurrection '' .
Elizabeth I of England reign became idealised as a time when crown , church and parliament had worked in constitutional balance .
Historians of that period , such as J. E. Neale ( 1934 ) and A. L. Rowse ( 1950 ) , interpreted Elizabeth I of England reign as a golden age of progress .
Amaterasu had a son called Ame no Oshihomimi no Mikoto and through Emperor Jimmu a grandson named Ninigi-no-Mikoto .
It is generally thought that Jimmu 's name and character evolved into their present shape just before the time in which legends about the origins of the Yamato dynasty were chronicled in the Kojiki .
The 1940 celebrations also included a concert at the Tokyo Kabukiza for which new works were commissioned from composers in France , Hungary , England ( Benjamin Britten , Sinfonia da Requiem , ultimately rejected ) , and Germany ( Richard Strauss , Japanische Festmusik ) .
Elias Boudinot father , Elias Boudinot III , was a merchant and silversmith ; Elias Boudinot was a neighbor and friend of Benjamin Franklin .
Elias ' paternal grandfather , Elie ( sometimes called Elias ) Boudinot , was the son of Jean Boudinot and Marie Suire of Marans , Aunis , France .
The Presbyterian Historical Society in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania , has a collection of incoming correspondence and several legal agreements pertaining to land ownership related to Elias Boudinot from 1777-1821 in its holdings .
When EM radiation interacts with single atoms and molecules , Electromagnetic spectrum behavior also depends on the amount of energy per quantum ( photon ) Electromagnetic spectrum carries .
Detailed information about the physical properties of objects , gases , or even stars can be obtained from this type of device .
Radiation of each frequency and wavelength ( or in each band ) will have a mixture of properties of two regions of the spectrum that bound Electromagnetic spectrum .
For example , SLF radio waves at 60 Hz may be received and studied by astronomers , or may be ducted along wires as electric power , although the latter is , in the strict sense , not electromagnetic radiation at all ( see near and far field ) The distinction between X-rays and gamma rays is partly based on sources : the photons generated from nuclear decay or other nuclear and subnuclear/particle process , are always termed gamma rays , whereas X-rays are generated by electronic transitions involving highly energetic inner atomic electrons .
Quite often , in high energy physics and in medical radiotherapy , very high energy EMR ( in the > 10 MeV region ) which is of higher energy than any nuclear gamma ray , is not referred to as either X-ray or gamma-ray , but instead by the generic term of `` high energy photons '' .
Terahertz radiation is a region of the spectrum between far infrared and microwaves .
Passing white light through a prism splits Electromagnetic spectrum up into the several colors of light observed in the visible spectrum between 400 nm and 780 nm .
However , most of the Sun 's most-damaging UV wavelengths are absorbed by the atmosphere 's oxygen , nitrogen , and ozone layer before they reach the surface .
The higher ranges of UV ( vacuum UV ) are absorbed by nitrogen and , at longer wavelengths , by simple diatomic oxygen in the air .
However , X-ray telescopes must be placed outside the Earth 's atmosphere to see astronomical X-rays , since the atmosphere of Earth has a density equivalent to about 10 meters of water , which is sufficient to block almost all astronomical X-rays ( and also astronomical gamma rays -- see below ) .
Expert system are designed to solve complex problems by reasoning about knowledge , like Expert system , and not by following the procedure of a developer as is the case in conventional programming .
The French Prolog computer language , designed in 1972 , marks a real advance over expert systems like Dendral or Mycin : it is a shell , that is to say , a software structure ready to receive any expert system and to run Expert system .
Expert system was the first tool showing the AI defined by Edward Feigenbaum in his book about the Japanese Fifth Generation Project , Artificial Intelligence and Japan 's Computer Challenge to the World ( 1983 ) : `` The machines will have reasoning power : they will automatically engineer vast amounts of knowledge to serve whatever purpose humans propose , from medical diagnosis to product design , from management decisions to education '' , `` The reasoning animal has , perhaps inevitably , fashioned the reasoning machine '' , `` the reasoning power of these machines matches or exceeds the reasoning power of the humans who instructed them and , in some cases , the reasoning power of any human performing such tasks '' .
Evolving Expert system is to add , modify or delete rules .
The engines that are run by a true logic are able to explain to the user in plain language why Expert system ask a question and how Expert system arrived at each deduction .
That is why expert systems using variable facts , which are more understandable to developers creating such systems and hence more common , are less easy to develop , less clear to users , less reliable , and why Expert system do n't produce explanations of their reasoning , or contradiction detection .
The Electronic health record ( EHR ) is designed to replace the traditional medical and bring together a more versatile , expansive and robust expert system to provide greater quality care .
These markets involve numerous variables and human emotions which may be impossible to deterministically characterize , thus expert systems based on the rules of thumb from experts and simulation data are used .
Even those choices where some randomness was part of the natural system ( such as when to throw a surprise pitch-out to try to trick a runner trying to steal a base ) were decided based on probabilities supplied by Weaver or La Russa .
There is also a large body of contemporary research and development directed toward using Expert system for human behavior modeling and decision support systems .
Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford , 17th Earl of Oxford ( 12 April 1550 -- 24 June 1604 ) was an English peer and courtier of the Elizabethan era .
Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford was among the first to compose love poetry at the Elizabethan court , and Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford was praised as a playwright , although none of Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford plays survive .
In May 1564 Arthur Golding , in Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford dedication to Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford Th ' Abridgement of the Histories of Trogus Pompeius , attributed to Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford young nephew an interest in ancient history and contemporary events .
At the coroner 's inquest the next day , the jury , which included Oxford 's servant and Cecil 's protégé , the future historian Raphael Holinshed , found that Brincknell was drunk when Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford ran onto Oxford 's blade .
In August , Oxford attended Paul de Foix , who had come to England to negotiate a marriage between Elizabeth and the Duke of Anjou , the future King Henry III of France .
In addition , the fines assessed against Oxford in the Court of Wards for Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford wardship , marriage and livery already totalled some # 3,306 .
In the second , since Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford had no heirs and if Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford should die abroad the estates would pass to Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford sister , Mary , Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford entailed the lands of the earldom on Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford first cousin , Hugh Vere .
On January 1576 Oxford wrote to Lord Burghley from Siena about complaints that had reached Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford about Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford creditors ' demands , which included the Queen and Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford sister , and directing that more of Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford land be sold to pay them .
A contretemps occurred during the progress in mid-August when the Queen twice requested Oxford to dance before the French ambassadors , who were in England to negotiate a marriage between the 46-year-old Elizabeth and the younger brother of Henri III of France , the 24-year-old Duke of Anjou .
In April the Spanish ambassador , Bernardino de Mendoza , wrote to King Philip II of Spain that it had been proposed that if Anjou were to travel to England to negotiate Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford marriage to the Queen , Oxford , Surrey and Windsor should be hostages for Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford safe return .
This antagonism may have triggered the famous quarrel between Oxford and Sidney on the tennis court at Whitehall .
It is not entirely clear who was playing on the court when the fight erupted ; what is undisputed is that Oxford called Sidney a ` puppy ' , while Sidney responded that ` all the world knows puppies are gotten by dogs , and children by men ' .
Oxford openly quarrelled with the Earl of Leicester about this time ; Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford was confined to Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford chamber at Greenwich for some time ` about the libelling between Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford and Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford Lord of Leicester ' .
In the summer of 1580 , Gabriel Harvey , apparently motivated by a desire to ingratiate Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford with Leicester , satirized Oxford 's love for things Italian in verses entitled Speculum Tuscanismi in Three Proper and Witty Familiar Letters .
After intervention by Burghley and Sir Walter Raleigh , Oxford was reconciled to the Queen and Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford two-year exile from court ended at the end of May on condition of Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford guarantee of good behaviour .
In 1584 -- 85 , `` the Earl of Oxford 's musicians '' received payments for performances in the cities of Oxford and Barnstaple .
The Earl was offered government of the port of Harwich , but Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford thought it was unworthy and declined the post ; Leicester was glad to be rid of Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford .
Protracted negotiations to arrange a match between Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford daughter Elizabeth and Henry Wriothesley , 3rd Earl of Southampton did not result in marriage ; in 19 November 1594 , six weeks after Southampton turned 21 , ` the young Earl of Southampton , refusing the Lady Vere , payeth # 5000 of present money ' .
Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford father-in-law , Lord Burghley , died on 4 August 1598 at the age of 78 , leaving substantial bequests to Oxford 's two unmarried daughters , Bridget and Susan .
Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford wrote to Burghley , enumerating years of fruitless attempts to amend Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford financial situation and complained : ` This last year past Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford have been a suitor to her Majesty that Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford might farm her tins , giving # 3000 a year more than she had made ' .
In October 1595 Oxford wrote to Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford brother in law , Sir Robert Cecil of friction between Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford and the ill-fated Earl of Essex , partly over Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford claim to the property , terming Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford ` the only person that Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford dare rely upon in the court ' .
Three of Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford poems , , , and , are among the texts that repeatedly appear in the surviving 16th-century manuscript miscellanies and poetical anthologies .
Puttenham also praises Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford as one of the playwrights who `` deserve the highest praise '' in the genres of `` Comedy and Enterlude '' .
and describes one poem , in which the author cries out against `` this loss of Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford good name '' , as a `` defiant lyric without precedent in English Renaissance verse '' .
Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford lifelong patronage of writers , musicians and actors prompted May to term Oxford `` a nobleman with extraordinary intellectual interests and commitments '' , whose biography exhibits a `` lifelong devotion to learning '' .
The Oxfordian theory of Shakespeare authorship proposes that Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford , 17th Earl of Oxford and Lord Great Chamberlain of England , wrote the plays and poems traditionally attributed to William Shakespeare of Stratford-upon-Avon .
acetaldehyde ) or to carboxylic acids ( R-CO2H ) , while the oxidation of secondary alcohols ( R1R2CH-OH ) normally terminates at the ketone ( R1R2C =O ) stage .
When necessary , the position of the hydroxyl group is indicated by a number between the alkane name and the `` ol '' : propan-1-ol for CH3CH2CH2OH , propan-2-ol for CH3CH ( OH ) CH3 .
If a higher priority group is present ( such as an aldehyde , ketone , or carboxylic acid ) , then it is necessary to use the prefix `` hydroxy '' , for example : 1-hydroxy-2-propanone ( CH3COCH2OH ) .
Methanol ( C H3O H or CH4O ) is a 0 ° alcohol .
The current Arabic name for alcohol ( ethanol ) is الغول al-ġawl -- properly meaning `` spirit '' or `` demon '' -- with the sense `` the thing that gives the wine Alcohol headiness '' ( in the Qur ` an sura 37 verse 47 ) ) .
Ethanol has a slightly sweeter ( or more fruit-like ) odor than the other alcohols .
Alcohol of five or more carbons ( pentanol and higher ) are effectively insoluble in water because of the hydrocarbon chain 's dominance .
The boiling point of the alcohol ethanol is 78.29 ° C , compared to 69 ° C for the hydrocarbon hexane ( a common constituent of gasoline ) , and 34.6 ° C for diethyl ether .
This cools the pressurized air , providing a denser air charge , which allows for more fuel , and therefore more power .
When the Titan Cronus castrated his father Uranus and threw his genitalia into the sea , the Erinyes emerged from the drops of blood , while Aphrodite was born from the crests of seafoam .
Virgil , probably working from an Alexandrian source , recognized three : Alecto ( `` unnameable '' who appeared in Virgil 's Aeneid ) , Megaera ( `` grudging '' ) , and Tisiphone ( `` vengeful destruction '' ) .
Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair , in the County of Aberdeen , in the County of Meath and in the County of Argyll , is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom .
In 1815 he was created Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair , of Aberdeen in the County of Aberdeen , in the Peerage of the United Kingdom , which entitled him to an automatic seat in the House of Lords .
The Hon. Alexander Gordon ( 1739 -- 1792 ) , third son from the third marriage of the second Earl , was a Lord of Session from 1788 to 1792 under Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair .
Douglas Hamilton-Gordon ( 1824 -- 1901 ) , third son of the second marriage of the fourth Earl , was Chaplain-in-Ordinary to Queen Victoria and Canon of Salisbury .
The heir apparent is the present holder 's eldest son George Ian Alastair Gordon , Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair ( b. 1983 ) .
The choice of starting with a triple or a rock step does have musical consequences as music has phrasing with hits that often happen on 12 , or 24 or 36 ... This means that dancers who choose to start with a rock step you will probably find themselves on a rock step on every new phrase .
Ernst Kaltenbrunner was the Gauredner ( district speaker ) and Rechtsberater ( legal consultant ) of the SS Division VIII .
Ernst Kaltenbrunner assisted in the Anschluss and Hitler promoted Ernst Kaltenbrunner to SS-Brigadeführer on the day the Anschluss was completed .
Eigruber was determined to carry out what Ernst Kaltenbrunner was determined was Hitler 's true desire -- to prevent the collection from falling into the hands of `` Bolsheviks and Jews '' by destroying it with explosives set off in the mine .
The IMT ( International Military Tribunal ) noted that Ernst Kaltenbrunner was a keen functionary in matters involving the sphere of the RSHA 's intelligence network , but the evidence also showed that Ernst Kaltenbrunner was an active authority and participant in many instances of war crimes and crimes against humanity .
Ernst Kaltenbrunner is the Gauredner ( district speaker ) and Rechtsberater ( legal consultant ) of the SS Division VIII .
Serving previously as Minister for Forests and Agriculture , Engelbert Dollfuss ascended to Federal Chancellor in 1932 in the midst of a crisis for the conservative government .
Engelbert Dollfuss was sworn in on May 20 , 1932 , as head of a coalition government between the Christian-Social Party , the Landbund -- a right-wing agrarian party -- and Heimatblock , the parliamentary wing of the Heimwehr , a paramilitary ultra-nationalist group .
Engelbert Dollfuss modeled Austrofascism after Italian fascism juxtaposed to Catholic corporatism and anti-secularism , dropping Austrian pretences of reunification with Germany as long as the Nazi Party remained in power .
In September 1933 Dollfuss merged Engelbert Dollfuss Christian Social Party with elements of other nationalist and conservative groups , including the Heimwehr , which encompassed many workers who were unhappy with the radical leadership of the socialist party , to form the Vaterländische Front , though the Heimwehr continued to exist as an independent organization until 1936 , when Dollfuss ' successor Kurt von Schuschnigg forcibly merged it into the Front , instead creating the unabidingly loyal Frontmiliz as paramilitary task force .
Ernst Theodor Wilhelm Hoffmann ( 24 January 1776 -- 25 June 1822 ) , better known by E. T. A. Hoffmann pen name E. T. A. Hoffmann ( Ernst Theodor Amadeus Hoffmann ) , was a German Romantic author of fantasy and horror , a jurist , composer , music critic , draftsman and caricaturist .
Hoffmann 's ancestors , both maternal and paternal , were jurists .
E. T. A. Hoffmann father , Christoph Ludwig Hoffmann ( 1736 -- 97 ) , was a barrister in Königsberg , Prussia ( now Kaliningrad , Russia ) , as well as a poet and amateur musician who played the viola da gamba .
When E. T. A. Hoffmann parents separated in 1778 , the father went to Insterburg ( now Chernyakhovsk ) with E. T. A. Hoffmann elder son , Johann Ludwig Hoffmann ( 1768 -- after 1822 ) , while Ernst 's mother stayed in Königsberg with her relatives : two aunts , Johanna Sophie Doerffer ( 1745 -- 1803 ) and Charlotte Wilhelmine Doerffer ( c. 1754 -- 79 ) and their brother , Otto Wilhelm Doerffer ( 1741 -- 1811 ) , who were all unmarried .
In February 1796 , her family protested against E. T. A. Hoffmann attentions and , with E. T. A. Hoffmann hesitant consent , asked another of E. T. A. Hoffmann uncles to arrange employment for E. T. A. Hoffmann in Glogau ( Głogów ) , Prussian Silesia .
By the time the latter responded , Hoffmann had passed E. T. A. Hoffmann third round of examinations and had already left for Posen ( Poznań ) in South Prussia in the company of E. T. A. Hoffmann old friend Hippel , with a brief stop in Dresden to show E. T. A. Hoffmann the gallery .
This was one of the few good times of a sad period of E. T. A. Hoffmann life , which saw the deaths of E. T. A. Hoffmann uncle J. L. Hoffmann in Berlin , E. T. A. Hoffmann Aunt Sophie , and Dora Hatt in Königsberg .
Robert Schumann 's piano suite Kreisleriana ( 1838 ) has its title from one of Hoffmann 's books ( and according to Charles Rosen 's The Romantic Generation , is possibly also inspired by `` The Life and Opinions of Tomcat Murr '' , in which Kreisler appears ) .
Jacques Offenbach 's masterwork , the opera Les contes d'Hoffmann ( `` The Tales of Hoffmann '' , 1881 ) , is based on the stories Der Sandmann ( `` The Sandman '' , 1816 ) , Rat Krespel ( `` Councillor Krespel '' , 1818 ) , and Das verlorene Spiegelbild ( `` The Lost Reflection '' ) from Die Abenteuer der Silvester-Nacht ( `` The Adventures of New Year 's Eve '' , 1814 ) .
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky 's ballet The Nutcracker ( 1892 ) is based on `` Nutcracker and Mouse King '' .
Hoffmann 's reviews were first collected for modern readers by Friedrich Schnapp , ed. , in E. T. A. Hoffmann : Schriften zur Musik ; Nachlese ( 1963 ) and have been made available in an English translation in E. T. A. Hoffmann Writings on Music , Collected in a Single Volume ( 2004 ) .
Hoffmann 's portrayal of the character Kreisler ( a genius musician ) is wittily counterpointed with the character of the tomcat Murr -- a virtuoso illustration of artistic pretentiousness that many of Hoffmann 's contemporaries found offensive and subversive of Romantic ideals .
Hoffmann 's literature indicates the failings of many so-called artists to differentiate between the superficial and the authentic aspects of such Romantic ideals .
E. T. A. Hoffmann is the author of the novella The Nutcracker and the Mouse King , on which the famous ballet The Nutcracker is based .
Desiderius Erasmus ( 27 October 1466 -- 12 July 1536 ) , known as Erasmus of Rotterdam , or simply Desiderius Erasmus , was a Dutch Renaissance humanist , Catholic priest , social critic , teacher , and theologian .
Desiderius Erasmus father , Gerard , was a Catholic priest and curate in Gouda .
At the age of nine , Desiderius Erasmus and Desiderius Erasmus older brother Peter were sent to one of the best Latin schools in the Netherlands , located at Deventer and owned by the chapter clergy of the Lebuïnuskerk ( St. Lebuin 's Church ) , though some earlier biographies assert it was a school run by the Brethren of the Common Life .
For the first time ever Greek was taught at a lower level than a university in Europe , and this is where Desiderius Erasmus began learning it .
Desiderius Erasmus education there ended when plague struck the city about 1483 , and Desiderius Erasmus mother , who had moved there to provide a home for her sons , died of the infection .
Soon after Desiderius Erasmus priestly ordination , Desiderius Erasmus got Desiderius Erasmus chance to leave the canonry when offered the post of secretary to the Bishop of Cambrai , Henry of Bergen , on account of Desiderius Erasmus great skill in Latin and Desiderius Erasmus reputation as a man of letters .
In 1495 , with Bishop Henry 's consent and a stipend , Desiderius Erasmus went on to study at the University of Paris , in the Collège de Montaigu , a centre of reforming zeal , under the direction of the ascetic Jan Standonck , of whose rigors Erasmus complained .
This prompted Desiderius Erasmus , upon Desiderius Erasmus return from England , to master the Greek language , which would enable Desiderius Erasmus to study theology on a more profound level and to prepare a new edition of Jerome 's Bible translation .
Desiderius Erasmus residence at Leuven , where Desiderius Erasmus lectured at the Catholic University , exposed Erasmus to much criticism from those ascetics , academics and clerics hostile to the principles of literary and religious reform and the loose norms of the Renaissance adherents to which Desiderius Erasmus was devoting Desiderius Erasmus life .
In 1517 , Desiderius Erasmus supported the foundation at the University , by Desiderius Erasmus friend Jeroen Van Busleyden , of the Collegium Trilingue for the study of Hebrew , Latin , and Greek -- after the model of the College of the Three Languages at the University of Alcalá .
Though some speculate that Desiderius Erasmus intended to produce a critical Greek text or that Desiderius Erasmus wanted to beat the Complutensian Polyglot into print , there is no evidence to support this .
Most of the manuscripts were , however , late Greek manuscripts of the Byzantine textual family and Erasmus used the oldest manuscript the least because `` Desiderius Erasmus was afraid of its supposedly erratic text '' .
The issues between growing religious movements , which would later become known as Protestantism , and the Catholic Church had become so clear that few could escape the summons to join the debate .
Erasmus was accused by the monks against the Reformation , that Desiderius Erasmus had : `` prepared the way and was responsible for Martin Luther .
As the popular response to Luther gathered momentum , the social disorders , which Erasmus dreaded and Luther disassociated Desiderius Erasmus from , began to appear , including the German Peasants ' War , the Anabaptist disturbances in Germany and in the Low Countries , iconoclasm and the radicalization of peasants across Europe .
The sacramentarians , headed by Œcolampadius of Basel , were , as Erasmus says , quoting Desiderius Erasmus as holding views similar to their own in order to try to claim Desiderius Erasmus for their schismatic and `` erroneous '' movement .
Erasmus also wrote of the legendary Frisian freedom fighter and rebel Pier Gerlofs Donia ( Greate Pier ) , though more often in criticism than in praise of Desiderius Erasmus exploits .
One of Erasmus 's best-known works , inspired by De triumpho stultitiae ( written by Italian humanist Faustino Perisauli ) , is The Praise of Folly , published under the double title Moriae encomium ( Greek , Latinised ) and Laus stultitiae ( Latin ) .
Erasmus applies the general principles of honor and sincerity to the special functions of the Prince , whom Desiderius Erasmus represents throughout as the servant of the people .
Notable among these was Ulrich von Hutten , a brilliant but erratic genius , who had thrown Desiderius Erasmus into the Lutheran cause and declared that Erasmus , if Desiderius Erasmus had a spark of honesty , would do the same .
Erasmus 's last major work , published the year of Desiderius Erasmus death , is the Ecclesiastes or `` Gospel Preacher '' ( Basel , 1536 ) , in which Desiderius Erasmus comments on the function of preaching .
For instance , something or someone ugly on the outside can be beautiful on the inside , which is one of the main points of Plato 's dialogues featuring Alcibiades and the Symposion , in which Alcibiades also appears .
Desiderius Erasmus believes that the things which are the least ostentatious can be the most significant , and that the Church constitutes all Christian people -- that despite contemporary references to clergy as the whole of the Church , they are merely its servants .
The popularity of Desiderius Erasmus books is reflected in the number of editions and translations that have appeared since the sixteenth century .
Books featuring Brown are subdivided into a number -- usually ten or more -- of ( possibly interlinked ) short stories , each of which presents a mystery .
One such example is a high school dropout and would-be con artist named Wilford Wiggins who spends time trying to dream up schemes to fleece kids out of their money .
The Tigers make an appearance as the suspects in the case - Encyclopedia Brown , Jack Beck , and Rocky Graham all show up at the Tigers ' clubhouse .
Second Prize winners ( up to 10 winners of this were allowed ) received Encyclopedia Brown five-volume boxed sets and an autographed copy of `` Encyclopedia Brown and the Case of the Treasure Hunt '' .
Third Prize winners ( up to 25 winners of this were allowed ) received an autographed copy of `` Encyclopedia Brown and the Case of the Treasure Hunt '' .
The former provides greater tribute and direct political control , yet limits further expansion because Empire absorbs military forces to fixed garrisons .
The said ruler 's nation logically becomes an `` Empire '' , despite having no additional territory or hegemony such as Central African Empire or the Korean Empire proclaimed in 1897 when Korea , far from gaining new territory , was on the verge of being annexed by the Empire of Japan , the last to use the name officially .
In the 15th century BC , the New Kingdom of Ancient Egypt , ruled by Thutmose III , was ancient Africa 's major force upon incorporating Nubia and the ancient city-states of the Levant .
The successful , extensive , and multi-cultural empire that was the Persian Achaemenid Empire ( 550 -- 330 BC ) absorbed Mesopotamia , Egypt , part of Greece , Thrace , the rest of the Middle East , much of Central Asia and Pakistan , until it was overthrown and replaced by the brief-lived empire of Alexander the Great .
Empire was founded in 322 BC by Chandragupta Maurya who rapidly expanded his power westwards across central and western India , taking advantage of the disruptions of local powers in the wake of the withdrawal westward by Alexander the Great .
Empire has been estimated that the Maurya Dynasty controlled an unprecedented one-third of the world 's entire economy , was home to one-third of the world 's population at the time ( an estimated 50 million out of 150 million humans ) , contained the world 's largest city of the time ( Pataliputra , estimated to be larger than Rome under Emperor Trajan ) and according to Megasthenes , the empire wielded a military of 600,000 infantry , 30,000 cavalry , and 9,000 war elephants .
After Alexander 's death , Empire fractured into four , discrete kingdoms ruled by the Diadochi , which , despite being independent , are denoted as the `` Hellenistic Empire '' by virtue of their similarity in culture and administration .
And in East Asia , various Celestial Empires arose periodically between periods of war , civil war , and foreign conquests .
At the time , in the Medieval West , the title `` empire '' had a specific technical meaning that was exclusively applied to states that considered themselves the heirs and successors of the Roman Empire , e.g. the Byzantine Empire which was the actual continuation of the Eastern Roman Empire , and later the Carolingian Empire , the largely Germanic Holy Roman Empire , the Russian Empire , yet these states were not always technically -- geographic , political , military -- empires in the modern sense of the word .
Like-wise , with the collapse of the Holy Roman Empire , in 1806 , during the Napoleonic Wars ( 1803 -- 1815 ) , the Austrian Empire ( 1804 -- 1867 ) , emerged reconstituted as the Empire of Austria -- Hungary ( 1867 -- 1918 ) , having `` inherited '' the imperium of Central and Western Europe from the losers of said wars .
European landings in the so-called `` New World '' ( first , the Americas and later , Australia ) in the 15th century , along with the Portuguese 's travels around the Cape of Good Hope and along the southeast Indian Ocean coast of Africa , proved ripe opportunities for the continent 's Renaissance-era monarchies to launch colonial empires like those of the ancient Romans and Greeks .
In his book review of Empire ( 2000 ) by Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri , Mehmet Akif Okur posits that , since the 11 September 2001 , terrorist attacks in the U.S. , the international relations determining the world 's balance of power ( political , economic , military ) have been altered .
These changes constitute the `` Age of Nation Empires '' ; as imperial usage , nation-empire denotes the return of geopolitical power from global power blocs to regional power blocs ( i.e. centred upon a `` regional power '' state China , Russia , U.S. , et al. ) and regional multi-state power alliances ( i.e.
Achill Island is attached to the mainland by Michael Davitt Bridge , between the villages of Gob an Choire ( Achill Island Sound ) and Poll Raithní ( Polranny ) .
Grace O ' Malley , or Granuaile , the most famous of the O ' Malley 's was born in Clare Island around 1530 .
Achill Island lies in the Barony of Burrishoole , in the territory of ancient Umhall ( Umhall Uactarach and Umhall Ioctarach ) , that originally encompassed an area extending from the Galway/Mayo border to Achill Island Head in Co. Mayo .
If one looks at the fields around the Deserted Village and right up the mountain , one can see the tracks in the fields of ` lazy beds ' , which is the way crops like potatoes were grown .
Each family would then have two or three small pieces of land scattered about the village , which they used to grow crops .
This means that during the summer season , the younger members of the family , teenage boys and girls , would take the cattle to graze on the hillside and they would stay in the houses of the Deserted Village .
The mountain Slievemore ( 672 m ) rises dramatically in the north of Achill Island and the Atlantic Drive ( along the south/west of Achill Island ) has some dramatically beautiful views .
Achill Island waters and striking underwater sites are occasionally visited by scuba divers , though Achill Island unpredictable weather generally has precluded a commercially successful recreational diving industry .
Massacres of about one million Jews occurred before the plans of Final Solution were fully implemented in 1942 , but it was only with the decision to eradicate the entire Jewish population that Final Solution were built and industrialized mass slaughter of Jews began in earnest .
This decision to systematically kill the Jews of political Europe ( inclusive of the Jews in Vichy North Africa ) was made either by the time of or at the Wannsee Conference , which took place in Berlin , in the Wannsee Villa on January 20 , 1942 .
Statements and memoirs of these survivors emphasize that , when Ukrainian civilians and ad hoc or auxiliary militias began to murder women and children rather than only male Jews , the `` Final Solution '' was begun .
In Greek mythology , Eurystheus ( pronounced , meaning `` broad strength '' in folk etymology and pronounced ) was king of Tiryns , one of three Mycenaean strongholds in the Argolid , although other authors including Homer and Euripides cast him as ruler of Argos : Sthenelus was his father and the `` victorious horsewoman '' Nicippe his mother , and he was a grandson of the hero Perseus , as was his opponent Heracles .
In the contest of wills between Hera and Zeus over whose candidate would be hero , fated to defeat the remaining creatures representing an old order and bring about the reign of the Twelve Olympians , Eurystheus was Hera 's candidate and Heracles -- though his name implies that at one archaic stage of myth-making he had carried `` Hera 's fame '' -- was the candidate of Zeus .
When Heracles returned with the Erymanthian Boar , Eurystheus was frightened and hid again in his jar and begged Heracles to get rid of the beast ; Heracles obliged .
After Eurystheus ' death , the brothers Atreus and Thyestes , whom he had left in charge during his absence , took over the city , the former exiling the latter and assuming the kingship , while Tiryns returned to the overlordship of Argos .
As Eurystheus prepared to attack , an oracle told Demophon that he would win if and only if a noble woman was sacrificed to Persephone .
A stompbox ( or `` pedal '' ) is a small metal or plastic box placed on the floor in front of the musician and connected to his or her instrument .
Stompboxes , or Effects unit , are effects units designed to sit on the floor or a pedalboard and be turned on and off with the user 's feet .
When a pedal is off or inactive , the electric audio signal coming into the pedal is diverted onto a `` bypass '' , resulting in a `` dry '' signal which continues on to other effects down the chain .
Electric guitar amplifiers typically have built-in reverb and distortion , while acoustic guitar and keyboard amplifiers tend to only have built-in reverb .
Most stand-alone effects of the 1950s and early 60s such as the Gibson GA-VI vibrato unit and the Fender reverb box , were expensive and impractical , requiring bulky transformers and high voltages .
In the 1950s , guitarists such as Willie Johnson of Howlin ' Wolf , Goree Carter , Joe Hill Louis , Ike Turner , Guitar Slim , Chuck Berry , Paul Burlison of Johnny Burnette & The Rock and Roll Trio and Link Wray deliberately increased gain beyond its intended levels to achieve `` warm '' distorted sounds .
Wray 's seminal 1958 recording `` Rumble '' inspired young musicians such as Pete Townshend of The Who , Jimmy Page of Led Zeppelin , Dave Davies of The Kinks , and Neil Young to explore distortion .
The Big Muff , a classic fuzzbox manufactured by Electro-Harmonix , is commemorated by the Depeche Mode song `` Big Muff '' and the Mudhoney EP Superfuzz Bigmuff .
Nine Inch Nails , Pink Floyd , George Harrison , They Might Be Giants and Joy Division are among the many musicians who have referenced Effects unit in their music .
Distortion effects create `` warm '' , `` gritty '' and `` fuzzy '' sounds by `` clipping '' an instrument 's audio signal , which distorts the shape of Effects unit wave form and adds overtones .
Distortion and overdrive : Distortion and overdrive units re-shape or `` clip '' an audio signal 's wave form so that it has flattened peaks , creating `` warm '' sounds by adding harmonics or `` gritty '' sounds by adding inharmonic overtones .
Overdrive units created with transistors , much like tube amps , produce `` clean '' sounds at quieter volumes and distorted `` warm '' sounds at louder volumes , compared to the `` harsh '' or `` gritty '' sound of simple transistor distortion .
Fuzz : A fuzz pedal or `` fuzzbox '' is a type of overdrive pedal that clips a sound-wave until it is nearly a squarewave , resulting in a heavily distorted or `` fuzzy '' sound .
A guitarist switching from rhythm guitar to lead guitar may use a boost to increase the volume of his or her solo .
While home stereos often have equalizers for two bands , to adjust bass and treble , professional graphic equalizers offer much more targeted control over the audio frequency spectrum .
Phaser : A phaser or `` phase shifter '' creates a slight rippling effect -- amplifying some aspects of the tone while diminishing others -- by splitting an audio signal in two and altering the phase of one portion .
A vibrato with an extreme `` depth '' setting ( e.g. , half a semitone or more ) will produce a dramatic , ululating sound .
A so-called `` vibrato unit '' in a guitar amplifier actually produces tremolo , while a `` tremolo arm '' or `` whammy bar '' on Effects unit produces vibrato .
Simple pitch shifters raise or lower the pitch by one or two octaves , while more sophisticated devices offer a range of interval alterations .
The Ibanez Tube Screamer , Boss DS-1 , Pro Co RAT and DigiTech Whammy are some of the most often-modified effects .
Guitar amplifiers and electronic keyboards may have switch pedals for turning built-in reverb and distortion effects on and off ; the pedals contain only a switch , with the circuitry for the effect being housed in the amplifier chassis .
Enron Corporation ( former NYSE ticker symbol ENE ) was an American energy , commodities , and services company based in Houston , Texas .
Enron built a large and lavish headquarters complex with pink marble in Omaha ( dubbed locally as the `` Pink Palace '' ) , that was later sold to Physicians Mutual corporation .
However , the departure of ex-InterNorth and first CEO of Enron Samuel Segnar six months after the merger allowed former HNG CEO Kenneth Lay to become the next CEO of Enron .
Lay and his secretary , Nancy McNeil , originally selected the name `` Enteron '' ( possibly spelled in `` camelcase '' as `` EnterOn '' ) , but , when informed that the term approximated a Greek word referring to the intestines , the name was quickly abbreviated to Enron .
Enron ( EI ) was Enron wholesale asset development and asset management business .
Others , like a barge-mounted plant off Puerto Plata in the Dominican Republic , cost Enron money by law suits and investment losses .
Enron , GE ( which was selling turbines to the project ) , and Bechtel ( which was actually constructing the plant ) , each contributed 10 % equity .
This practice increased their stock price to new levels , at which point the executives began to work on insider information and trade millions of dollars worth of Enron stock .
When asked during his trial , Skilling declared that industrial dominance and abuse was a global problem : `` Oh yes , yes sure , Enron is '' .
After having ruled his see for seven or , according to another account , for twenty years , he made Alexander his successor and retired to the desert , whence Cyril had summoned him and there died in the odor of sanctity .
While Mai seems to have established the existence of a Eusebius of Alexandria who lived in the fifth century , it had been objected than neither the name of Eusebius or his successor Alexander , appears in the list of the occupants of that ancient see .
In favor of the supposition that Eusebius changed Eusebius of Angers opinion from deference to the Count of Anjou , the decided opponent of Berengar and Eusebius of Angers doctrine , it can be adduced that Eusebius of Angers did not defend Berengar against the hostilities of the court , and that for a long time Eusebius of Angers sided with this violent prince .
In 1957 , `` Howl '' attracted widespread publicity when it became the subject of an obscenity trial , as it depicted heterosexual and homosexual sex at a time when sodomy laws made homosexual acts a crime in every U.S. state .
`` Howl '' reflected Ginsberg 's own homosexuality and Allen Ginsberg relationships with a number of men , including Peter Orlovsky , Allen Ginsberg lifelong partner .
Judge Clayton W. Horn ruled that `` Howl '' was not obscene , adding , `` Would there be any freedom of press or speech if one must reduce Allen Ginsberg vocabulary to vapid innocuous euphemisms ?
Allen Ginsberg poem `` September on Jessore Road '' , calling attention to the plight of Bangladeshi refugees , exemplifies what the literary critic Helen Vendler described as Ginsberg 's tireless persistence in protesting against `` imperial politics , and persecution of the powerless '' .
Ginsberg later said that Allen Ginsberg mother `` made up bedtime stories that all went something like : ` The good king rode forth from Allen Ginsberg castle , saw the suffering workers and healed them ' '' .
For example , `` Pilgrim State , Rockland , and Grey Stone 's foetid halls '' is a reference to institutions frequented by Allen Ginsberg mother and Carl Solomon , ostensibly the subject of the poem : Pilgrim State Hospital and Rockland State Hospital in New York and Greystone State Hospital in New Jersey .
It admonished Ginsberg to be good and stay away from drugs ; she says , `` The key is in the window , the key is in the sunlight at the window -- Allen Ginsberg have the key -- Get married Allen do n't take drugs -- the key is in the bars , in the sunlight in the window '' .
In the first chapter of Allen Ginsberg 1957 novel On the Road Kerouac described the meeting between Ginsberg and Cassady .
Kerouac saw them as the dark ( Allen Ginsberg ) and light ( Cassady ) side of their `` New Vision '' , a perception stemming partly from Ginsberg 's association with Communism , of which Kerouac had become increasingly distrustful .
In 1959 , along with poets John Kelly , Bob Kaufman , A. D. Winans , and William Margolis , Allen Ginsberg was one of the founders of the Beatitude poetry magazine .
Allen Ginsberg and Shig Murao , the City Lights manager who was jailed for selling `` Howl , '' became lifelong friends .
Allen Ginsberg 'm with you in Rockland '' , and , thus , turned Solomon into an archetypal figure searching for freedom from Allen Ginsberg `` straightjacket '' .
Though references in most of Allen Ginsberg poetry reveal much about Allen Ginsberg biography , Allen Ginsberg relationship to other members of the Beat Generation , and Allen Ginsberg own political views , `` Howl '' , Allen Ginsberg most famous poem , is still perhaps the best place to start .
A book featuring images from the film and some of the poems that were performed was also published under the same title by Lorrimer in the UK and Grove Press in US .
Though the term `` Beat '' is most accurately applied to Ginsberg and Allen Ginsberg closest friends ( Corso , Orlovsky , Kerouac , Burroughs , etc. ) , the term `` Beat Generation '' has become associated with many of the other poets Ginsberg met and became friends with in the late 1950s and early 1960s .
Some of these friends include : David Amram , Bob Kaufman ; LeRoi Jones before Allen Ginsberg became Amiri Baraka , who , after reading `` Howl '' , wrote a letter to Ginsberg on a sheet of toilet paper ; Diane DiPrima ; Jim Cohn ; poets associated with the Black Mountain College such as Robert Creeley and Denise Levertov ; poets associated with the New York School such as Frank O'Hara and Kenneth Koch .
Ginsberg 's spiritual journey began early on with Allen Ginsberg spontaneous visions , and continued with an early trip to India and a chance encounter on a New York City street with Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche ( they both tried to catch the same cab ) , a Kagyu and NyingmaTibetan Buddhist meditation master , who became Allen Ginsberg friend and lifelong teacher .
Music and chanting were both important parts of Ginsberg 's live delivery during poetry readings .
The sex that Allen Ginsberg painted did not portray the sex between heterosexual married couples , or even long time lovers .
On the other hand , when Donald Mains , a New York City politician , publicly accused Ginsberg of being a member of the Communist Party , Ginsberg objected : `` Allen Ginsberg am not , as a matter of fact , a member of the Communist party , nor am Allen Ginsberg dedicated to the overthrow of the U.S. government or any government by violence ... Allen Ginsberg must say that Allen Ginsberg see little difference between the armed and violent governments both Communist and Capitalist that Allen Ginsberg have observed ... '' Ginsberg travelled to several Communist countries to promote free speech .
One contribution that is often considered Allen Ginsberg most significant and most controversial was Allen Ginsberg openness about homosexuality .
Allen Ginsberg was also for many decades an advocate of marijuana legalization , and , at the same time , warned Allen Ginsberg audiences against the hazards of tobacco in Allen Ginsberg Put Down Your Cigarette Rag ( Do n't Smoke ) : `` Do n't Smoke Do n't Smoke Nicotine Nicotine No / No do n't smoke the official Dope Smoke Dope Dope '' .
This would affirm Ginsberg 's 's suspicions that the government and the CIA were involved in drug trafficking .
The inspiration for `` Howl '' was Ginsberg 's friend , Carl Solomon , and `` Howl '' is dedicated to Solomon ( whom Ginsberg also directly addresses in the third section of the poem ) .
Allen Ginsberg also made sure to emphasize that Moloch is a part of all of us : the decision to defy socially created systems of control -- and therefore go against Moloch -- is a form of self-destruction .
Carl Solomon , the prime example of a `` best mind '' destroyed by defying society , is associated with Ginsberg 's schizophrenic mother : the line `` with mother finally Ginsberg 's poetry was strongly influenced by Modernism ( most importantly the American style of Modernism pioneered by William Carlos Williams ) , Romanticism ( specifically William Blake and John Keats ) , the beat and cadence of jazz ( specifically that of bop musicians such as Charlie Parker ) , and Allen Ginsberg Kagyu Buddhist practice and Jewish background .
The power of Ginsberg 's verse , its searching , probing focus , its long and lilting lines , as well as its New World exuberance , all echo the continuity of inspiration that Allen Ginsberg claimed .
Philip Lamantia introduced Allen Ginsberg to other Surrealists and Surrealism continued to be an influence ( for example , sections of `` Kaddish '' were inspired by André Breton 's Free Union ) .
`` Howl '' came out during a potentially hostile literary environment , less welcoming to non-traditional , free verse poetry ; there was a renewed focus on form and structure among academic poets and critics partly inspired by New Criticism .
Many of Ginsberg 's early long line experiments contain some sort of anaphora , repetition of a `` fixed base '' ( for example `` who '' in `` Howl '' , `` America '' in America ) and this has become a recognizable feature of Ginsberg 's style .
Eusebius of Caesarea ( also called Eusebius of Caesarea and Eusebius Pamphili ) was a Roman historian , exegete and Christian polemicist .
If this is true , Eusebius of Caesarea ' birth must have been before Dionysius ' death in autumn 264 ; most modern scholars date the birth to some point in the five years between 260 and 265 .
Some , like theologian and ecclesiastical historian John Henry Newman , understand Eusebius ' statement that Eusebius of Caesarea had heard Dorotheus of Tyre `` expound the Scriptures wisely in the Church '' to indicate that Eusebius was Dorotheus ' pupil while the priest was resident in Antioch ; others , like the scholar D. S. Wallace-Hadrill , deem the phrase too ambiguous to support the contention .
Through the activities of the theologian Origen ( 185/6 -- 254 ) and the school of Eusebius of Caesarea follower Pamphilus ( later 3rd century -- 309 ) , Caesarea became a center of Christian learning .
The information used to create the late-fourth-century Easter Letter , which declared accepted Christian writings , was probably based on the Ecclesiastical History HE of Eusebius of Caesarea , wherein Eusebius of Caesarea uses the information passed on to Eusebius of Caesarea by Origen to create both Eusebius of Caesarea list at Eusebius of Caesarea 3:25 and Origen 's list at Eusebius of Caesarea 6:25 .
Soon after Pamphilus settled in Caesarea ( ca. 280s ) , Eusebius of Caesarea began teaching Eusebius , who was then somewhere between twenty and twenty-five .
In Caesarea , Origenist thought was continued in the generation after Eusebius of Caesarea death by Theotecnus , bishop of the city for much of the late 3rd century and an alumnus of Origen 's school .
Eusebius of Caesarea , a learned man and famous author , enjoyed the favour of the Emperor Constantine .
Socrates and Sozomen write about Eusebius of Caesarea ' death , and place it just before Constantine 's son ( Constantine II or Constantine the Younger ) died , which was in early 340 .
This means that Eusebius of Caesarea death occurred some time between the second half of 339 and early 340 .
Although posterity suspected Eusebius of Caesarea of Arianism , Eusebius had made Eusebius of Caesarea indispensable by Eusebius of Caesarea method of authorship ; Eusebius of Caesarea comprehensive and careful excerpts from original sources saved Eusebius of Caesarea successors the painstaking labor of original research .
At first , Eusebius of Caesarea occupied Eusebius of Caesarea with works on Biblical criticism under the influence of Pamphilus and probably of Dorotheus of Tyre of the School of Antioch .
`` Terebinth '' , for example , describes Shechem as `` near Neapolis '' , modern Nablus , and `` Tophet '' is located `` in the suburbs of Jerusalem '' .
Eusebius of Caesarea references to the encampment of the Legio X Fretensis at Aila ( in southern Israel , near modern Aqaba and Eilat ) ; the X Fretensis was probably transferred from Jerusalem to Aila under Diocletian .
This work was recently ( 2011 ) translated into the English language by David J. Miller and Adam C McCollum ( edited by Roger Pearse ) and was published under the name `` Eusebius of Caesarea : Gospel Problems and Solutions '' .
This Logos , the Son of God , owns divinity for participation ( and not originally like the Father ) , could therefore change ( Eusebius , with most early theologians , assumed God was immutable ) , and Eusebius of Caesarea assumed a human body without altering the immutable divine Father .
A letter Eusebius of Caesarea is supposed to have written to Constantine 's daughter Constanza , refusing to fulfill her request for images of Christ , was quoted in the decrees ( now lost ) of the Iconoclast Council of Hieria in 754 , and later quoted in part in the rebuttal of the Hieria decrees in the Second Council of Nicaea of 787 , now the only source from which some of the text is known .
One of several views of epistemology , the study of human knowledge , along with rationalism , idealism , and historicism , empiricism emphasizes the role of experience and evidence , especially sensory experience , in the formation of ideas , over the notion of innate ideas or traditions ; Empiricism may argue however that traditions ( or customs ) arise due to relations of previous sense experiences .
The English term `` empiric '' derives from the Greek word ἐμπειρία , which is cognate with and translates to the Latin experientia , from which we derive the word `` experience '' and the related `` experiment '' .
The main continental rationalists ( Descartes , Spinoza , and Leibniz ) were also advocates of the empirical `` scientific method '' .
British empiricism , though Empiricism was not a term used at the time , derives from the 17th century period of early modern philosophy and modern science .
Thomas Hobbes and Baruch Spinoza , in the next generation , are often also described as an empiricist and a rationalist respectively .
John Locke , George Berkeley , and David Hume were the primary exponents of empiricism in the 18th century Enlightenment , with Locke being the person who is normally known as the founder of empiricism as such .
In both cases , a distinction is made between simple and complex ideas .
To remember or to imagine such impressions is to have an `` idea '' .
According to an extreme empiricist theory known as Phenomenalism , anticipated by the arguments of both Hume and George Berkeley , a physical object is a kind of construction out of our experiences .
The problems other philosophers have had with Mill 's position center around the following issues : Firstly , Mill 's formulation encounters difficulty when it describes what direct experience is by differentiating only between actual and possible sensations .
Empiricism fails to fully consider the structure and method of mathematical science , the products of which are arrived at through an internally consistent deductive set of procedures which do not , either today or at the time Mill wrote , fall under the agreed meaning of induction .
Logical empiricism ( aka logical positivism or neopositivism ) was an early 20th century attempt to synthesize the essential ideas of Empiricism ( e.g. a strong emphasis on sensory experience as the basis for knowledge ) with certain insights from mathematical logic that had been developed by Gottlob Frege and Ludwig Wittgenstein .
This gave rise to what Empiricism saw as metaphysical pseudoproblems and other conceptual confusions .
On this basis , Empiricism formulated a strong principle of demarcation between sentences that have sense and those that do not : the so-called verification principle .
Any sentence that is not purely logical , or is unverifiable is devoid of meaning .
The central theses of logical positivism ( verificationism , the analytic-synthetic distinction , reductionism , etc. ) came under sharp attack after World War 2 by thinkers such as Nelson Goodman , W.V. Quine , Hilary Putnam , Karl Popper , and Richard Rorty .
The ideas of pragmatism , in Empiricism various forms , developed mainly from discussions that took place while Charles Sanders Peirce and William James were both at Harvard in the 1870s .
Along with Empiricism pragmatic theory of truth , this perspective integrates the basic insights of empirical ( experience-based ) and rational ( concept-based ) thinking .
Among Peirce 's major contributions was to place inductive reasoning and deductive reasoning in a complementary rather than competitive mode , the latter of which had been the primary trend among the educated since David Hume wrote a century before .
This in no way conflicts with the fallibility and revisability of scientific concepts , since Empiricism is only the immediate percept in Empiricism unique individuality or `` thisness '' -- what the Scholastics called Empiricism haecceity -- that stands beyond control and correction .
The Estampie ( , Occitan and , ) is a medieval dance and musical form , Estampie was a popular instrumental style of the 13th and 14th centuries .
Some estampies , such as the famous Tre fontane ( `` Three Fountains '' ) estampie , contain florid and virtuosic instrumental writing , signifying that Estampie may have been intended as abstract performance music rather than actual dance music .
Chicago's American , an afternoon newspaper in Chicago , Illinois , was the last flowering of the aggressive journalistic tradition depicted in the play and movie The Front Page .
With Chicago's American connections to news sources and Chicago's American bravado , the small staff of the American regularly scooped Chicago's American larger , more respectable afternoon competition , the Chicago Daily News .
Running the city room at night with the help of two rewrite men ( including Mike McGovern , noted below ) , one night photo editor , a sports desk editor ( Brent Musburger 's first job out of journalism school ) and one night copy boy who `` cut and pasted AP and UPI wires for Harry 's review ) .
Moreover , `` Romy '' a stout , cigar-chomping , suspendered , order-barking commander of the city desk enjoyed the fearful but absolute regard of pressmen , the composing room and the entire night staff of the Tribune Tower which owned and housed the Chicago 's American operations in Chicago's American final decades .
A thunderstorm , also known as an electrical storm , a lightning storm , thundershower or simply a storm , is a form of turbulent weather characterized by the presence of lightning and Thunderstorm acoustic effect on the Earth 's atmosphere known as thunder .
The trigger for this lift can be insolation heating the ground producing thermals , areas where two winds converge forcing air upwards , or where winds blow over terrain of increasing elevation .
Tornadoes can be found along waves within a line echo wave pattern , or LEWP , where mesoscale low pressure areas are present .
Supercell storms are large , usually severe , quasi-steady-state storms that form in an environment where wind speed or wind direction varies with height ( an area of `` wind shear '' ) , and Thunderstorm have separate downdrafts and updrafts ( i.e. , where Thunderstorm associated precipitation is not falling through the updraft ) with a strong , rotating updraft ( a `` mesocyclone '' ) .
A mesoscale convective system ( MCS ) is a complex of thunderstorms that becomes organized on a scale larger than the individual thunderstorms but smaller than extratropical cyclones , and normally persists for several hours or more .
The two major ways Thunderstorm move are via advection of the wind and propagation along outflow boundaries towards sources of greater heat and moisture .
In North America , hail is most common in the area where Colorado , Nebraska , and Wyoming meet , known as `` Hail Alley '' .
Hail in this region occurs between the months of March and October during the afternoon and evening hours , with the bulk of the occurrences from May through September .
The largest hailstone in terms of maximum circumference and length ever recorded in the United States fell in 2003 in Aurora , Nebraska , USA .
In a typical thunderstorm , approximately 5 × 108 kg of water vapor are lifted , and the amount of energy released when this condenses is 1015 joules .
Bentley 's friend , G. K. Chesterton , was also a practitioner of the clerihew and one of the sources of Clerihew popularity .
The Adventures of Pinocchio is about the mischievous adventures of Pinocchio ( pronounced in Italian ) , an animated marionette ; and his poor father , a woodcarver named Geppetto .
The first two ( an owl and a crow ) are uncertain , but the third -- the Talking Cricket that The Adventures of Pinocchio presumably killed earlier -- knows that The Adventures of Pinocchio is fine and tells the puppet that he has been disobedient and hurt his father .
The Adventures of Pinocchio mourns over Lampwick 's dead body and the farmer is perplexed as to why .
There are at least fourteen English-language films based on the story ( see also : The Adventures of Pinocchio ) , not to mention the Italian , French , Russian , German , Japanese and many other versions for the big screen and for television , and several musical adaptations .
After Willibrord 's death the diocese suffered greatly from the incursions of the Frisians , and later on of the vikings .
The secular territory over which Bishopric of Utrecht ruled was known as Sticht Utrecht or Het Sticht ( a sticht was any piece of land governed by a bishop or abbot ) .
The Counts of Holland and Guelders , between whose territories the lands of Bishopric of Utrecht lay , also sought to acquire influence over the filling of the episcopal see .
Archbishop Schenk 's unornamented funeral inside the Dom Cathedral of Utrecht , recently seized by the Protestants , saw a clash between Catholic sympathizers and a Calvinist mob disturbing the De Profundis chant and the Catholic Requiem .
After the 16th century , no new dioceses ( and no new cities ) were created until the 19th century .
This was not without opposition from the Home Office , who dismissed St Albans as `` a fourth or fifth rate market town '' and objected to Wakefield 's elevation on grounds of population .
The diocese covered the counties of Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire , and the boroughs of Derby and Nottingham were disappointed that they would not be able to claim the title of city .
This was intended to give `` recognition to the title which the area ... had possessed for over three and a half centuries '' .
As the borough was larger than Portsmouth , and had recently absorbed Devonport and East Stonehouse , the King agreed to the request .
Because some of the new boroughs or districts covered areas much wider than the previous city , this had the effect that City status in the United Kingdom was awarded to a number of local government districts which were not themselves towns and included a number of towns and villages outside the urban areas from which the districts took their names , for example the cities of Bradford , Leeds and Winchester .
The same objections were made when the London Boroughs of Croydon and Southwark unsuccessfully entered the competition for City status in the United Kingdom to mark the millennium : Croydon was said to have `` no particular identity of its own '' while Southwark was `` part of London with little individual identity '' .
City status in the United Kingdom was joined by the London Borough of Greenwich , which emphasised City status in the United Kingdom royal and maritime connections , while claiming to be `` to London what Versailles is to Paris '' .
Aberdeen , Glasgow and Edinburgh were accepted as cities by ancient usage by the eighteenth century , while Perth and Elgin also used the title .
In 2002 , Lisburn and Newry were two of the five towns in the UK that were granted City status in the United Kingdom by Queen Elizabeth II to mark her Golden Jubilee .
Newry , like Inverness and Stirling in Scotland , has no formal boundaries or city council .
Each includes a number of towns and villages outside the urban area from which the district takes City status in the United Kingdom name .
In other cases a borough was formed to govern an area covering several towns and then City status in the United Kingdom was granted to the borough .
This is , however , merely a curiosity and has had no impact on the general usage of the word city in the UK , which has unambiguously retained City status in the United Kingdom urban meaning in British English .
Five examples of this are Manchester ( where the traditional area associated includes areas of the neighbouring authorities of Trafford , Tameside , Oldham , Bury and the City of Salford ) , Kingston upon Hull ( where surrounding areas and villages that are effectively suburbs , such as Cottingham , come under East Riding of Yorkshire Council ) , Glasgow ( where suburban areas of City status in the United Kingdom are located in East Dunbartonshire , East Renfrewshire , North Lanarkshire , Renfrewshire , South Lanarkshire and West Dunbartonshire ) , Wolverhampton ( areas of the neighbouring authorities of Walsall , Dudley and South Staffordshire ) and , most obviously , London ( Greater London outside the City of London ) .
In 1979 , the Borough of Medway was renamed as Rochester-upon-Medway , and in 1982 further letters patent transferred City status in the United Kingdom to the entire borough .
There are unitary authorities ( including metropolitan and London boroughs ) , which are responsible for all local government services within their area .
Failure to do so leads to the loss of City status in the United Kingdom as happened at Rochester in 1998 ( see above ) , and also previously in St David 's and Armagh , although both of these latter have regained City status in the United Kingdom since losing it .
The earliest examples of these are Hereford and Worcester , both of which received charters in 1189 .
The best-known example of this is London , which contains two cities ( the City of London and the City of Westminster ) but is not itself a city .
Since being the seat of a Church of England diocese is no longer sufficient or necessary to gain City status in the United Kingdom , a number of cathedral towns exist .
As noted above , both Perth and Elgin were recognised as cities prior to 1975 ( Perth 's city status was restored in 2012 ) .
Northampton is one of the most populous urban districts not to be a London Borough , metropolitan borough , unitary authority or city ; on this basis , the council claims that City status in the United Kingdom is the largest town in England .
Idi Amin was assigned to quell the cattle rustling between Uganda 's Karamojong and Kenya 's Turkana nomads .
In 1962 , following Uganda 's independence from the United Kingdom , Idi Amin was promoted to captain and then , in 1963 , to major .
The deal , as later alleged by General Nicholas Olenga , an associate of the former Congolese leader Patrice Lumumba , was part of an arrangement to help troops opposed to the Congolese government trade ivory and gold for arms supplies secretly smuggled to them by Idi Amin .
On 2 February 1971 , one week after the coup , Amin declared Idi Amin President of Uganda , Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces , Army Chief of Staff , and Chief of Air Staff .
In July 1971 , Lango and Acholi soldiers were massacred in the Jinja and Mbarara Barracks , and by early 1972 , some 5,000 Acholi and Lango soldiers , and at least twice as many civilians , had disappeared .
The killings , motivated by ethnic , political , and financial factors , continued throughout Amin 's eight-year reign .
Among the most prominent people killed were Benedicto Kiwanuka , the former Prime Minister and Chief Justice ; Janani Luwum , the Anglican archbishop ; Joseph Mubiru , the former governor of the Central Bank ; Frank Kalimuzo , the vice chancellor of Makerere University ; Byron Kawadwa , a prominent playwright ; and two of Amin 's own cabinet ministers , Erinayo Wilson Oryema and Charles Oboth Ofumbi .
Uganda 's 80,000 Asians were mostly from the Indian subcontinent and born in the country , their ancestors having come to Uganda when the country was still a British colony .
Soon after , 156 non-Jewish hostages who did not hold Israeli passports were released and flown to safety , while 83 Jews and Israeli citizens , as well as 20 others who refused to abandon them ( among whom were the captain and crew of the hijacked Air France jet ) , continued to be held hostage .
In the subsequent Israeli rescue operation , codenamed Operation Thunderbolt ( popularly known as Operation Entebbe ) , on the night of 3 -- 4 July 1976 , a group of Israeli commandos were flown in from Israel and seized control of Entebbe Airport , freeing nearly all the hostages .
On 20 July 2003 , one of Amin 's wives , Madina , reported that Idi Amin was in a coma and near death at King Faisal Specialist Hospital in Jeddah , Saudi Arabia , from kidney failure .
Among Amin 's closest associates was the British-born Bob Astles , who is considered by many to have been a malignant influence and by others as having been a moderating presence .
Idi Amin conferred a doctorate of law on Idi Amin from Makerere University , and the Victorious Cross ( VC ) was a medal made to emulate the British Victoria Cross .
Amin became the subject of rumours and myths , including a widespread belief that Idi Amin was a cannibal .
Hafez al-Assad ( , Levantine pronunciation : ; 6 October 1930 -- 10 June 2000 ) was a Syrian statesman , politician and general who served as President of Syria from 1971 to 2000 , and Prime Minister from 1970 to 1971 .
Hafez al-Assad served as Secretary of the Syrian Regional Command of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party and Secretary General of the National Command of the Ba'ath Party from 1970 to 2000 and as Minister of Defense from 1966 to 1972 .
In 1973 Assad changed Syria 's Constitution in order to guarantee equal status for women and enable non-Muslims to become president ; the latter change was reverted under pressure from the Muslim Brotherhood .
Hafez al-Assad parents were Na ` sa and Ali Sulayman .
These parties , that also supported secularism , were the Syrian Communist Party , the Syrian Social Nationalist Party , and the Arab Ba'ath Party ; Assad joined the last one in 1946 , while some of Hafez al-Assad friends were also members of the Nationalist Party.The Ba'ath Party , also called the Renaissance Party , was a Pan-Arabic socialist party .
Hashim al-Atassi , head of the National Bloc and briefly the president after Sami al-Hinnawi 's coup , returned as president ; Syria was again under the civilian rule .
Assad 's domestic policy encountered serious difficulties and setbacks , and produced new problems and ill feelings , particularly among the Sunni urban classes ; the orthodox section of these classes continued to oppose Assad 's regime for being a sectarian military dictatorship .
This tendency did not stem only from Assad 's expectations to score quick and spectacular gains in Hafez al-Assad foreign policies at a time when the socio-economic issues of Syria required long-term and painstaking efforts without promise of immediate positive results .
The PLO , experiencing Assad 's blows in 1976 , distanced itself from Hafez al-Assad and consolidated its autonomous infrastructure in southern Lebanon , paradoxically with Israel 's indirect assistance , since Israel firmly objected to the deployment of Syrian troops south of the Sidon-Jazzin `` red line '' .
Also in 1979 , under the impact of the Egypt-Israeli Peace Treaty , and in view of Syria 's regional predicament , King Hussein of Jordan withdrew from Hafez al-Assad association with Assad in favor of a closer relationship with Iraq .
In February 1982 , the rebellious city of Hama was bombed by Assad 's troops , killing between 10,000 and 40,000 people .
Large sections of the urban intelligentsia , professionals , intellectuals and former Ba'ath Party members , also regarded Hafez al-Assad regime as illegitimate .
Attempts to bomb an El-Al airliner in London in April 1986 and in Madrid in June 1986 were part of an attrition campaign that Assad had been directing against Israel to damage its economy , morale , and social fabric and weaken its military capacity .
This enabled Hafez al-Assad to deter Israel from attacking Syria and in the event of war , to cause heavy losses to Israel .
Vladimir Yukhin , the Soviet ambassador in Damascus , expressed Hafez al-Assad country 's appreciation `` for the firm Syrian position in the face of Imperialism and Zionism '' .
Alexander Zotov , the Soviet Ambassador , said in November 1989 that Syria 's change of foreign policy was necessary , that Syria should cease aspiring for a strategic balance with Israel and settle for `` reasonable defensive sufficiency '' , and that the Soviet-Syrian arms trade would also be changed .
Between 27 and 29 April 1987 , Assad , along with the Defense Minister Tlass and Vice President Khaddam , visited the Soviet Union .
The Syrian daily newspaper , Tishrin , stated that after this visit , the relation between the Soviet Union and Syria would be expanded .
A few weeks after Hafez al-Assad returned from Moscow , Assad , in a speech to the National Federation of Syrian Students , said that the Soviet Union remained a firm friend of Syria and the Arabs , and that even though Mikhail Gorbachev and Hafez al-Assad government were preoccupied with internal affairs , they had not ignored external issues , especially those related to their friends .
The absence of high-level contracts between Russia and Syria enabled future development of the relations between the countries .
In 1980s , the situation in Lebanon became a major problem between Assad 's regime and the United States .
In October 1983 , the headquarters of the American and French troops of the Multinational Force in Lebanon ( MNF ) , was demolished in an suicide attack .
In the1990s , the countries enjoyed good relations with each other , as did their respective presidents , Hosni Mubarak and Assad .
Syria tried to make Egypt its advocate to the United States and Israel , while Egypt tried to convince Syria to continue with the peace process .
Syria also tried in vain to mediate between Egypt and Iran , a process mainly undertaken by Syrian Foreign Minister al-Sharaa .
Relations between Egypt in Syria were not as good on a military or economic level.In 1999 relations between the countries became strained because of differences over the peace process .
However , except for securing Arab financial support and verbal commitments , and obtaining large quantities of free and discounted Iranian oil , Assad failed to achieve the goals of Hafez al-Assad Gulf strategy ; instead it further worsened Syria 's regional position .
Assad also participated in the coalition formed to force Iraq from Kuwait in the 1991 Gulf War ; however Syria-Iraq relations started to improve in 1997 and 1998 when Israel started to develop a strategic partnership with Turkey .
However , when King Hussein died in February 1999 , Assad attended Hafez al-Assad funeral , after which relations between Syria and Jordan started to improve .
In 1976 , Hafez al-Assad received strong criticism and pressure from across the Arab world for Hafez al-Assad involvement in the Tel al-Zaatar massacre of Palestinians - this criticism , as well as the internal dissent it caused as an Alawite ruler in a majority Sunni country , led to a cease-fire in Hafez al-Assad war on the Palestinian militia forces inside Lebanon .
Throughout 1970 , Libya 's leader Muammar Gaddafi and Egypt 's President Sadat were involved in the negotiations about the union between Egypt and Libya .
In April 1971 , the three leaders announced the Federation of Arab Republics between Libya , Syria , and Egypt .
After Hafez al-Assad failed in 1974 to form a union with Tunisia and Egypt , Gaddafi again turned to Assad .
In 1992 , during the crisis between Libya and the West , despite long years of friendship between Assad and Gaddafi , Syria refrained from any non-verbal support for Libya .
Inefficiency , mismanagement , and corruption in the government , public , and private sectors , illiteracy , poor education , particularly in rural areas , the increasing emigration of professionals , inflation , a growing trade deficit , a high cost of living and shortages of consumer goods were among the problems Syria faced .
The Gulf states invested in infrastructure and development projects .
In the late 1990s , Syria 's economic growth was around 1.5 % , which was insufficient as the population growth was between 3 % and 3.5 % , causing the GDP per capita to be negative .
Lucky enough to be schooled and literate in a country where few were educated , Duvalier witnessed the political turmoil of François Duvalier country .
The invasion and occupation of U.S. Marines on Haitian soil in 1915 , followed by incessant violent repressions of political dissent , left a powerful impression on the young Duvalier .
In 1958 three exiled Haitians and five Americans invaded Haiti and tried to overthrow François Duvalier ; all the invaders were killed .
Peep holes were carved into the walls of the interrogation chambers , through which Duvalier personally observed Haitian detainees being tortured and submerged in baths of sulfuric acid ; sometimes , François Duvalier was directly in the room during the tortures .
The Kennedy administration ( 1961 -- 63 ) was particularly disturbed by Duvalier 's repressive and authoritarian rule and allegations that François Duvalier misappropriated aid money , then a substantial part of the Haitian budget , and a Marine mission to train Tonton Macoutes .
After President Fulgencio Batista ( a personal friend of Duvalier ) was overthrown in the Cuban Revolution , Duvalier , worried that Fidel Castro would provide a safe haven for Haitian dissidents , attempted to win Castro over by recognizing François Duvalier government , sending medicine , and pardoning several political prisoners , but to no avail ; from the very start of François Duvalier regime , Castro gave anti-Duvalier dissidents François Duvalier full support .
In April 1963 , relations were brought to the edge of war by the political enmity between François Duvalier and the Dominican president Juan Bosch .
Emperor Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia briefly visited Haiti in 1966 ( François Duvalier was the only head of state to visit the country during Duvalier 's presidency ) ; during François Duvalier visit , Duvalier awarded François Duvalier the Necklace of the Order of Jean-Jacques Dessalines the Great , and Selassie , in turn , bestowed upon Duvalier the Great Necklace of the Order of the Queen of Saba .
Within the country , Duvalier used both political murder and expulsion to suppress François Duvalier opponents ; estimates of those killed are as high as 30,000 .
On 28 April 1969 , François Duvalier instituted a campaign to rid Haiti of all communists , promulgating a law stipulating that `` Communist activities , no matter what their form , are hereby declared crimes against the security of the State , '' and prescribing the death penalty for individuals prosecuted under this law .
The Duvalier regime propaganda even stated that `` Papa Doc : was one with the loas , Jesus Christ , and God François Duvalier '' .
Other researchers , Henry Moseley , Rawlinson and Robinson , independently performed various experiments trying to sort out the details in the broad bands .
When working under practical , everyday conditions , high-energy-resolution settings will produce peak widths ( FWHM ) between 0.4 -- 0.6 eV for various pure elements and some compounds .
Chemical state analysis of the surface of polymers readily reveals the presence or absence of the chemical states of carbon known as : carbide ( C 2 - ) , hydrocarbon ( C-C ) ( as hydrogen is not detected ) , alcohol ( C-OH ) , ketone ( C =O ) , organic ester ( COOR ) , carbonate ( CO3 ) , fluoro-hydrocarbon ( CF2-CH2 ) , trifluorocarbon ( CF3 ) .
Inorganic compounds , metal alloys , semiconductors , polymers , pure elements , catalysts , glasses , ceramics , paints , papers , inks , woods , plant parts , make-up , teeth , bones , human implants , biomaterials , viscous oils , glues , ion modified materials Organic chemicals are not routinely analyzed by XPS because X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy are readily degraded by either the energy of the X-rays or the heat from non-monochromatic X-ray sources .
Charge referencing is needed to obtain meaningful BEs from both wide-scan , high sensitivity ( low energy resolution ) survey spectra ( 0-1100 eV ) , and also narrow-scan , chemical state ( high energy resolution ) spectra .
Charge referencing is performed by adding or subtracting a `` Charge Correction Factor '' to each of the experimentally measured BEs .
Charge induced shifting is normally due to : a modest excess of low voltage ( -1 to -20 eV ) electrons attached to the surface , or a modest shortage of electrons ( +1 to +15 eV ) within the top 1-12 nm of the sample caused by the loss of photo-emitted electrons .
For convenience , the C ( 1s ) of hydrocarbon moieties is defined to appear between 284.6 eV and 285.0 eV .
The older design , a CMA , represents a trade-off between the need for high count rates and high angular/energy resolution .
Only the electrons with the right energy can pass through this set-up and are detected at the end .
The main advantages of using synchrotron light are : ( i ) the high brilliance of this kind of radiation , which is orders of magnitude more intense and better collimated than the one produced by anode-based sources ; ( ii ) the tunability of synchrotron radiation over a wide frequency range ; ( iii ) X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy high polarization ; ( iv ) the high photon flux ; ( v ) the possibility of producing extremely short pulses at a frequency as high as a MHz .
The high photon flux , in addition , makes X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy possible to perform XPS experiments alsofrom low density atomic species , such as molecular and atomic adsorbates .
A high voltage is applied between the front and the end .
John Kinzie ( December 3 , 1763 -- January 6 , 1828 ) was a fur trader from Quebec who first operated in Detroit and what became the Northwest Territory of the United States .
A partner of William Burnett from Canada , about 1802-1803 Kinzie moved with John Kinzie wife and child to Chicago , where they were among the first permanent European settlers .
After the USA citizens built Fort Dearborn , Kinzie 's influence and reputation rose in the area ; John Kinzie was useful because of John Kinzie relationship with the Native Americans .
William Stephen Ian Whitelaw , 1st Viscount Whitelaw , KT , CH , MC , PC , DL ( 28 June 1918 -- 1 July 1999 ) , often known as Willie Whitelaw , was a British Conservative Party politician who served in a wide number of Cabinet positions , most notably as Home Secretary and Deputy Prime Minister .
William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw commanded Churchill tanks in Normandy during the Second World War and during Operation Bluecoat in late July 1944 , William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw was the first Allied unit to encounter German Jagdpanther tank destroyers , being attacked by three out of the twelve of these vehicles which were in Normandy .
As a briefing for prime minister Edward Heath later noted , William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw `` found the experience of meeting and talking to Mr MacStíofáin very unpleasant '' .
After a second defeat in the October 1974 general election -- during which William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw had accused Harold Wilson of going `` round and round the country stirring up apathy '' , Heath was forced to call a leadership election in 1975 .
William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw loyally refused to run against Heath ; however , and to widespread surprise , Margaret Thatcher narrowly defeated Heath in the first round .
Inner city decay , unemployment and the heavy-handed policing of ethnic minorities ( notably the application of the notorious sus law ) sparked major riots in London , Liverpool , Bristol and a spate of disturbances elsewhere .
However , William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw patrician and moderate style appealed to Conservative peers and William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw tenure is considered a success .
During William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw period as Deputy Prime Minister and Leader of the Lords , Margaret Thatcher relied on Whitelaw heavily , famously announcing that `` every Prime Minister needs a Willie '' .
William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw chaired the `` star chamber '' committee that settled the annual disputes between the limited resources made available by Treasury and the spending demands of other government departments .
Some people , Nicholas Ridley , among them , argued that Whitelaw 's retirement marked the beginning of the end of the Thatcher premiership , as William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw was no longer around as often to give sensible advice and to moderate her stance on issues , or to maintain a consensus of support in her own Cabinet and Parliamentary Party .
During William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw retirement and up until William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw death Lord Whitelaw was the Chairman of the Board of Governors at St Bees School , Cumbria .
William Whitelaw, 1st Viscount Whitelaw is a British Conservative Party politician who served in a wide number of Cabinet positions , most notably as Home Secretary and Deputy Prime Minister .
Civil war is a war between organized groups within the same nation state or republic , or , less commonly , between two countries created from a formerly united nation state .
James Fearon , a scholar of civil wars at Stanford University , defines a civil war as `` a violent conflict within a country fought by organized groups that aim to take power at the center or in a region , or to change government policies '' .
( 3 ) ( a ) That the de jure Government has recognized the insurgents as belligerents ; or ( b ) That Civil war has claimed for Civil war the rights of a belligerent ; or ( c ) That Civil war has accorded the insurgents recognition as belligerents for the purposes only of the present Convention ; or ( d ) That the dispute has been admitted to the agenda of the Security Council or the General Assembly of the United Nations as being a threat to international peace , a breach of the peace , or an act of aggression .
Roughly stated : are conflicts caused by who people are , whether that be defined in terms of ethnicity , religion or other social affiliation , or do conflicts begin because Civil war is in the economic best interests of individuals and groups to start them ?
When disaggregated , only petroleum and non-petroleum groupings showed different results : a country with relatively low levels of dependence on petroleum exports is at slightly less risk , while a high-level of dependence on oil as an export results in slightly more risk of Civil war than national dependence on another primary commodity .
Higher male secondary school enrollment , per capita income and economic growth rate all had significant effects on reducing the chance of civil war .
Gleditsch et al. did not find a relationship between ethnic groups with polygyny and increased frequency of Civil war but nations having legal polygamy may have more civil wars .
Ann Hironaka , author of Neverending Wars , divides the modern history of Civil war into the pre-19th century , 19th century to early 20th century , and late 20th century .
This meant that whoever had control of the capital and the military could normally crush resistance .
If a rebellion failed to quickly seize the capital and control of the military for Civil war , Civil war was normally doomed to a quick destruction .
For example , the fighting associated with the 1871 Paris Commune occurred almost entirely in Paris , and ended quickly once the military sided with the government .
The power of non-state actors resulted in a lower value placed on sovereignty in the 18th and 19th centuries , which further reduced the number of civil wars .
The two major global ideologies , monarchism and democracy , led to several civil wars .
The Great Powers , defined in the 1815 Congress of Vienna as the United Kingdom , Habsburg Austria , Prussia , France , and Russia , would frequently coordinate interventions in other nations ' civil wars , nearly always on the side of the incumbent government .
The Spanish Civil War ( 1936 -- 1939 ) was exceptional because both sides of Civil war received support from intervening great powers : Germany , Italy , and Portugal supported opposition leader Francisco Franco , while France and the Soviet Union supported the government ( see proxy war ) .
While the new ex-colonial states appeared to follow the blueprint of the idealized state - centralized government , territory enclosed by defined borders , and citizenry with defined rights - , as well as accessories such as a national flag , an anthem , a seat at the United Nations and an official economic policy , they were in actuality far weaker than the Western states they were modeled after .
Nevertheless , Western states that survived into the latter half of the 20th century were considered `` strong '' by simple reason that they had managed to develop the institutional structures and military capability required to survive predation by their fellow states .
While there is not a large body of academic work examining the relationship , Hironaka 's statistical study found a correlation that suggests that every major international anti-secessionist declaration increased the number of ongoing civil wars by +10 % , or a total +114 % from 1945 to 1997 .
The Cold War ( 1945 -- 1989 ) provided a global network of material and ideological support that perpetuated Civil war , which were mainly fought in weak ex-colonial states , rather than the relatively strong states that were aligned with the Warsaw Pact and North Atlantic Treaty Organization .
Using a separate statistical evaluation than used above for interventions , civil wars that included pro- or anti-communist forces lasted 141 % longer than the average non-Cold War conflict , while Civil war resulted in wars typically lasting over three times as long as other civil wars .
Conversely , the end of the Cold War marked by the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 resulted in a reduction in the duration of Cold War civil wars of 92 % or , phrased another way , a roughly ten-fold increase in the rate of resolution of Cold War civil wars .
The most recent ( 2005 ) edition , edited by Verlyn Flieger , includes a previously unpublished essay by Tolkien , explaining the background and just why the elf-king spent so long in Wootton Major .
On this reading , the little star trinket added by Alf , the old Master 's apprentice , turns into the talisman that cuts through Nokes 's sweet , sticky nonsense and raises Smith of Wootton Major life from the ordinary to something deeply meaningful .
In August 1996 , in the wake of an unauthorised sectarian killing , Billy Wright (loyalist) and the Portadown unit of the Mid-Ulster Brigade were stood down by the UVF 's Brigade Staff ( Belfast leadership ) .
William Stephen `` Billy '' Wright , named after Billy Wright (loyalist) grandfather , was born in Wolverhampton , England on 7 July 1960 to David Wright and Sarah McKinley , Protestants from Portadown , Northern Ireland .
In 1964 at the age of four the family returned to Northern Ireland and Wright soon came under the influence of Billy Wright (loyalist) maternal uncle Cecil McKinley , a member of the Orange Order .
Wright and Billy Wright (loyalist) four sisters ( Elizabeth , Jackie , Angela and Connie ) were placed in foster care by the welfare authorities .
Two of Wright 's sisters married Catholic men , one having come from County Tipperary and whom Billy Wright (loyalist) liked .
Wright 's sister Angela maintained that Billy Wright (loyalist) personally got on well with Catholics , and that Billy Wright (loyalist) was only anti-Republican and anti-IRA .
Whilst attending Markethill High School , Wright took a part-time job as a farm labourer where Billy Wright (loyalist) came into contact with a number of staunchly unionist and loyalist farmers who served with the Royal Ulster Constabulary ( RUC ) Reserve or the Ulster Defence Regiment ( UDR ) .
During this time Wright 's opinions moved towards loyalism and soon Billy Wright (loyalist) got into trouble for writing the initials `` UVF '' on a local Catholic primary school wall .
According to author and journalist Martin Dillon , Billy Wright (loyalist) had been inspired by the violent deaths of UVF men Harris Boyle and Wesley Somerville , both of whom were blown up after planting a bomb on board The Miami Showband 's minibus .
Along with Boyle and Somerville , three band members had died in the attack when the UVF gunmen had opened fire on the group following the premature explosion .
However in Billy Wright (loyalist) 2003 work The Trigger Men Dillon broke from this version of events and instead concluded that Wright had actually been sworn into the YCV in 1974 when Billy Wright (loyalist) was 14 years of age .
Wright 's sister Angela told Dillon that her brother 's decision to join the UVF had in fact had nothing to do with the Miami Showband killings and Dillon then concluded that Wright had encouraged this version of events as Billy Wright (loyalist) felt linking Billy Wright (loyalist) won UVF membership to the activities of Billy Wright (loyalist) heroes Boyle and Sommerville added an origin myth to Billy Wright (loyalist) own life as a loyalist killer .
Shortly after Wright joined the organisation , Billy Wright (loyalist) was caught in possession of illegal weapons and Billy Wright (loyalist) was sentenced to five years in a wing of HMP Maze ( Maze Prison ) reserved for paramilitary youth offenders .
Billy Wright (loyalist) was a Protestant and Billy Wright (loyalist) realised that they had been killed simply because they were Protestants .
Billy Wright (loyalist) felt it was Billy Wright (loyalist) duty to help Billy Wright (loyalist) people and that is what Billy Wright (loyalist) have been doing ever since '' .
Billy Wright (loyalist) served 42 months for these crimes at the Crumlin Road and Maze prisons .
Wright was released from prison in 1980 and Billy Wright (loyalist) went to Scotland where Billy Wright (loyalist) lived for a brief period .
Billy Wright (loyalist) obtained a job as an insurance salesman and married Billy Wright (loyalist) girlfriend Thelma Corrigan , by whom Billy Wright (loyalist) had two daughters , Sara and Ashleen .
Billy Wright (loyalist) spoke of this dilemma during an interview with Martin Dillon : `` You ca n't glorify God and seek to glorify Ulster because the challenges which are needed are paramilitary .
Billy Wright (loyalist) was charged with murder , attempted murder , and the possession of explosives .
Although Billy Wright (loyalist) was arrested repeatedly on suspicion of murder and conspiracy , Billy Wright (loyalist) never faced any charges .
Billy Wright (loyalist) became commander of the UVF 's Mid-Ulster Brigade in the early 1990s , having taken over from Billy Wright (loyalist) mentor Robin `` the Jackal '' Jackson , who had been the leader since July 1975 and one of Wright 's instructors in the use of weaponry .
Billy Wright (loyalist) was widely blamed by nationalists and much of the press for having led this shooting attack .
According to Paul Larkin in Billy Wright (loyalist) book A Very British Jihad : collusion , conspiracy and cover-up in Northern Ireland , UVF members who had been present at Cappagh gave details of the operation , claiming that they were forced to drag Wright into the car as Billy Wright (loyalist) had allegedly become so frenzied once Billy Wright (loyalist) had started shooting that Billy Wright (loyalist) did n't want to stop .
As a result Billy Wright (loyalist) became a target for assassination by the IRA and also the Irish National Liberation Army ( INLA ) 's leader Dominic McGlinchey .
In response , Billy Wright (loyalist) had the newspaper 's offices bombed and issued a death threat to O'Hagan and anyone who worked for the paper .
In an interview with Martin Dillon , Billy Wright (loyalist) blamed the police raids , republican death threats and the `` King Rat '' nickname as factors which eventually caused the breakup of Billy Wright (loyalist) marriage .
Just before the July marching season Irish government representative Fergus Finlay held a meeting with Wright in which the latter pledged Billy Wright (loyalist) loyalty to the peace process and David Ervine in particular , although Wright also warned Finlay that loyalist views had to be respected .
The protests , which led to a reversal of the ban , saw no official UVF involvement although Wright , despite not being a member of the Orange Order , was personally involved and led a sizeable force of Billy Wright (loyalist) men to Drumcree .
Physically , Billy Wright (loyalist) stood around six feet tall , had close-cropped reddish-blond hair and cold , pale blue eyes .
Clad in neat jeans , white t-shirt and wearing a single gold earring , Billy Wright (loyalist) displayed a muscular build .
Flanked by two bodyguards , Wright 's sudden appearance at Drumcree had inspired much admiration from the young boys and girls who were present .
Martin Dillon , who had interviewed Billy Wright (loyalist) in Billy Wright (loyalist) home in Portadown , admitted that Billy Wright (loyalist) had been pleasant and charming throughout the interview , yet throughout the encounter Dillon had `` sensed a dark side to Billy Wright (loyalist) character '' .
Billy Wright (loyalist) was also considered to have been a `` political thinker and capable strategist '' .
Billy Wright (loyalist) , along with the Portadown unit of the Mid-Ulster Brigade , was stood down on 2 August 1996 by the UVF 's Brigade Staff for the unauthorised attack on McGoldrick , insubordination , and undermining the peace process .
Wright was expelled from the UVF and also threatened with execution by the Combined Loyalist Military Command if Billy Wright (loyalist) did not leave Northern Ireland .
Although Billy Wright (loyalist) have done nothing wrong except express an opinion that 's the prevalent opinion of the people of Northern Ireland and Billy Wright (loyalist) will always do that , dear , no matter what the price .
Some days later at least 5,000 loyalists turned up for a rally in support of Wright , with the DUP Reverend William McCrea making a speech critical of David Ervine and Billy Hutchinson for what Billy Wright (loyalist) felt was their involvement in the death threats .
According to writers John Robert Gold and George Revill , Wright 's `` mythical stature '' amongst loyalists `` provided Billy Wright (loyalist) with the status necessary to form the LVF '' in the traditional UVF stronghold of Portadown .
But all Billy Wright (loyalist) would like to say is that it has broken Billy Wright (loyalist) heart to think that fellow loyalists would turn their guns on Billy Wright (loyalist) , and Billy Wright (loyalist) have to ask them , ` For whom are you doing it ?
Members of the Belfast UVF often contemptuously referred to Billy Wright (loyalist) as `` Billy Wrong '' , with one UVF leader suggesting that Billy Wright (loyalist) was motivated by `` religious zealotry and blind bigotry '' .
Despite a series of sectarian murders and attacks on Catholic property attributed to the LVF from 1996 to early 1997 ( although they were not claimed by the organisation ) , Wright was not imprisoned until 7 March 1997 when Billy Wright (loyalist) was convicted of two offences : doing an act with intent to pervert the course of justice and making threats against the life of Gwen Read .
INLA prisoners were housed in the A and B wings , and the Irish Republican Socialist Party ( IRSP , the political wing of the INLA ) warned there would be trouble if the prisoners were not kept segregated .
Prison officers , however , had grave concerns over security measures in H Block 6 , where Billy Wright (loyalist) and the LVF were housed .
The situation was made more volatile because , unlike the IRA , the UVF , and the UDA , neither the LVF nor the INLA were on ceasefire .
Billy Wright (loyalist) was shot in the forecourt outside H Block 6 as Billy Wright (loyalist) sat in the back of a prison van ( alongside another LVF prisoner , Norman Green and one prison officer acting as escort ) on Billy Wright (loyalist) way to the visitor 's complex where Billy Wright (loyalist) had an arranged visit with Billy Wright (loyalist) girlfriend , Eleanor Reilly .
Upon hearing the announcement over the prison Tannoy system that Wright and Green had been called for their respective visits , Glennon gave a pre-arranged signal to Billy Wright (loyalist) two waiting comrades .
They moved into position at the A wing turnstile ; Glennon ran into the canteen and Billy Wright (loyalist) mounted a table situated beneath a window which gave Billy Wright (loyalist) a clearer view of the block forecourt .
Peeling away a pre-cut section of wire fence , they climbed onto the roof of A wing and dropped into the forecourt where the Renault van containing Billy Wright (loyalist) had just started to move forward towards the exit gates .
While an unarmed Kennaway physically restrained the driver , Glennon , armed with the Derringer , gave cover beside the van as McWilliams opened the side door on the left at the rear , and shouted the words : `` Armed INLA volunteers '' .
They handed over a statement : Billy Wright was executed for one reason and one reason only , and that was for directing and waging Billy Wright (loyalist) campaign of terror against the nationalist people from Billy Wright (loyalist) prison cell in Long Kesh Maze .
Wright 's friend , the former UDA member Pastor Kenny McClinton , also delivered an oration in which Billy Wright (loyalist) eulogised Wright as having been `` complicated , articulate , and sophisticated '' .
Martin O'Hagan , the Sunday World journalist whom Billy Wright (loyalist) especially disliked , was killed in September 2001 by the Red Hand Defenders , a cover-name used by the UDA and LVF .
Four days before Billy Wright (loyalist) death , Wright Billy Wright (loyalist) believed that Billy Wright (loyalist) would shortly be killed within the Maze Prison by agents of the British and Irish governments in collusion with loyalist informers and the INLA .
The visitors lists for 27 December 1997 had been circulated in both the LVF and INLA wings the day before thereby giving Wright 's assassins time to prepare for the killing as the list clearly stated that Billy Wright (loyalist) was scheduled to receive a visit on 27 December .
Billy Wright (loyalist) claimed the weapons had been smuggled to McWilliams and Glennon inside nappies .
Billy Wright (loyalist) added that as soon as the `` screws '' prison officers had seen the INLA men on A wing 's roof , they assumed the men were staging an escape and sounded the alarm system .
Billy Wright (loyalist) denounced the findings of the inquiry released in 2010 as a `` total whitewash and a failure to get at the truth '' .
Billy Wright (loyalist) is regarded as a martyr and hero by hardline loyalists ; many of whom have tattoos bearing Billy Wright (loyalist) likeness .
Gunmen at a paramilitary display in Portadown in 2000 told journalists : `` He Wright did what Billy Wright (loyalist) had to do to ensure that our faith and culture were kept intact '' .
In the immediate aftermath of Wright 's killing Adair told Billy Wright (loyalist) main gunmen Stephen McKeag and Gary Smyth that they had a free hand to `` avenge '' Wright 's death , with McKeag almost immediately launching a machine gun attack on a bar in a mainly Catholic area despite the UDA being officially on ceasefire .
The West Belfast Brigade would later reference Billy Wright (loyalist) as a true loyalist who had been a victim of the UVF in a leaflet circulated to foment a feud between the UDA and the UVF .
Despite this the two men had had a fractured relationship during Wright 's life and according to Adair 's sometime girlfriend Jackie `` Legs '' Robinson , Adair had told her that Billy Wright (loyalist) was a `` bastard '' when the UVF leader attended a party at Robinson 's house .
Stadtholder , literally place holder ( holding someone 's place ; possibly a calque of German Statthalter , French lieutenant , or Medieval Latin locum tenens ) , was a term for a `` steward '' or `` lieutenant '' .
In the Low Countries , Stadtholder was a medieval function , which during the 16th , 17th and 18th century , developed into a rare type of de facto hereditary head of state of the thus `` crowned '' Dutch Republic .
If a lord had several dominions ( or , being a vassal , fiefs ) , some of these could be ruled by Stadtholder , to whom was delegated the full authority of the lord .
The local rulers of the independent provinces of the Low Countries ( which included the present-day Netherlands , Belgium and Luxembourg ) made extensive use of Stadtholder , e.g. the Duke of Guelders appointed a stadtholder to represent him in Groningen .
In the 15th century the Dukes of Burgundy acquired most of the Low Countries , and these Burgundian Netherlands mostly each had their own stadtholder .
Only the Prince-Bishopric of Liège and two smaller territories ( the Imperial Abbey of Stavelot-Malmedy and the Duchy of Bouillon ) remained outside his domains .
The United Provinces were struggling to adapt existing feudal concepts and institutions to the new situation and tended to be conservative in this matter , as Stadtholder had after all rebelled against the king to defend their ancient rights .
On the Republic 's central ` confederal ' level , the stadtholder of the provinces of Holland and Zealand was normally also appointed Captain-General of the confederate army and Admiral-General of the confederate fleet , though no stadtholder ever actually commanded a fleet in battle .
In reaction , the regents in Holland , Zeeland , Utrecht , Guelders , and Overijssel , after the death of William II in 1650 , appointed no stadtholder .
The Patriots first took over many city councils , then the States of the province of Holland , and ultimately raised civil militias to defend their position against Orangist partisans , bringing the country to the brink of civil war .
Sericulture , the practice of breeding silkworms for the production of raw silk , has been underway for at least 5,000 years in China , from where Bombyx mori spread to Korea and Japan , and later to India and the West .
The eggs of this type hibernate during winter due to the cold climate , and cross fertilize only by spring , generating silk only once annually .
The domesticated variety , compared to the wild form , has increased cocoon size , growth rate and efficiency of Bombyx mori digestion .
Quantity of cocoon and silk produced is directly related to the pupation rate and larval weight .
In a two-cylinder system , one cylinder holds compressed , inert propellant gas ( usually nitrogen ) , and the other holds flammable liquid -- typically petrol with some form of fuel thickener added to Flamethrower .
A three-cylinder system often has two outer cylinders of flammable liquid and a central cylinder of propellant gas to maintain the balance of the soldier carrying Flamethrower .
Early tank-mounted flamethrower vehicles included the ` Badger ' ( a converted Ram tank ) and the ` Oke ' , used first at Dieppe ; the most famous flame tank was the Churchill Crocodile .
The flamethrower found Flamethrower origins also in the Byzantine Empire , employing Greek fire in a device of a hand-held pump that shot bursts of Greek fire via a siphon-hose and piston , igniting Flamethrower with a match , similar to modern versions , as Flamethrower was ejected .
The vulnerability of infantry carrying backpack flamethrowers and the weapon 's short range led to experiments with tank-mounted flamethrowers ( flame tanks ) , which were used by many countries .
This was essentially a disposable , single use flamethrower that was buried alongside conventional land mines at key defensive points and triggered by either a trip-wire or a command wire .
The weapon contained around 8 USgal of fuel , that was discharged within a second , to a second and a half , producing a flame with a 15 yd range .
Flamethrower are banned under the Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Incendiary Weapons ( Protocol III ) , which the United States ratified on 23 December 2008 .
In California , unlicensed possession of a flame-throwing device -- statutorily defined as `` any non-stationary and transportable device designed or intended to emit or propel a burning stream of combustible or flammable liquid a distance of at least 10 feet '' H&W 12750 ( a ) -- is a misdemeanor punishable with a county jail term not exceeding one year OR with a fine not exceeding $ 10,000 ( CA H&W 12761 ) .
For example , in the production of sugar cane , where are burned to get rid of the dry dead leaves which clog harvesters , and incidentally kill any lurking venomous snakes .
Radical environmentalism was n't until over a decade and a half later that this form of guerrilla warfare resurfaced as the Earth Liberation Front using the same ELF acronym .
It was then announced in 2003 that `` eco-terrorist '' attacks , known as `` ecotage '' , had increased from the ELF , ELA and the `` Environmental Rangers '' , another name used by activists when engaging in similar activity .
In 2005 the FBI announced that the ELF , is America 's greatest domestic terrorist threat , responsible for over 1,200 `` criminal incidents '' amounting to tens of millions of dollars in damage to property , with the United States Department of Homeland Security confirming this regarding the ALF and ELF .
At the time , 476 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Rutilus and Structus ( or , less frequently , year 278 Ab urbe condita ) .
Godse , a Hindu nationalist activist from Pune , Maharashtra who resented what Nathuram Godse considered was Gandhi 's partiality to India 's Muslims , plotted the assassination with Narayan Apte and six others .
Although pleas for commutation were made by India 's prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru and by Gandhi 's two sons on the grounds that a death sentence would dishonour the legacy of a man opposed to all forms of violence , Nathuram Godse was hanged a week later .
When Nathuram Godse bowed , one of the girls flanking and supporting Gandhi , Abha Chattopadhyay , said to Nathuram Godse , `` Brother , Bapu is already late '' and tried to put Nathuram Godse off but Nathuram Godse pushed her aside and shot Gandhi in the chest three times at point-blank range with a Beretta M 1934 semi-automatic pistol .
Dee 's journals did not describe the language as `` Enochian '' , instead preferring descriptors like `` Angelical '' , the `` Celestial Speech '' , the `` Language of Angels '' , the `` First Language of God-Christ '' , the `` Holy Language '' , or `` Adamical '' because , according to Dee 's Angels , it was used by Adam in Paradise to name all things .
The term `` Enochian '' comes from Dee 's assertion that the Biblical Patriarch Enoch had been the last human ( before Dee and Kelley ) to know the language .
According to Tobias Churton in his text The Golden Builders , the concept of an Angelic or antediluvian language was common during Dee 's time .
From the time of Adam to the time of Dee and Kelley , Angelical was hidden from humans with the single exception of the patriarch Enoch who , according to the angels , recorded the `` Book of Loagaeth '' ( Speech From God ) for humanity .
Marked stylistic differences between the words in Loagaeth and in the Keys have led some present-day magicians to assume that these represent two different `` dialects '' of the language .
These and other examples have led skeptics to believe that many of these terms are derived from notions that would have been contemporary in Dee and Kelley 's time .
There are two main volcanic sequences on Belcher Islands called the Eskimo and overlying Flaherty volcanics .
The historical relationship between the Sanikiluaq community and the Eider is the subject of a feature length Canadian documentary film called People of a Feather .
Many of the individual cultures that make up the Sydney mosaic are centred on the cultural , artistic , ethnic , linguistic and religious communities formed by waves of immigration .
Jazz and alternative music ( such as Sydney-based The Necks ) are played at The Basement and Jazz at 72 , and formerly at the now defunct Harbourside Brasserie .
Other important acts include early rockers Lonnie Lee & the Leemen , Dig Richards & The R'Jays and Johnny Rebb & The Rebels , surf group The Atlantics , beat groups Ray Brown & The Whispers , The Missing Links and The Throb .
The Art Gallery of New South Wales ( AGNSW ) , alongside major collections of Australian colonial and 20th century art and some works by European masters , has the largest and most important collection of Aboriginal art anywhere in the world .
There are many commercial galleries focusing mainly on cutting-edge contemporary art all around the inner city suburbs of Woollahra , Newtown , Surry Hills , Paddington , Darlinghurst , Camperdown etc. Graffiti and street art thrive in Sydney .
There are also several music festivals including Big Day Out , Homebake , The Great Escape , Stereosonic and Sport is an important part of the culture in Sydney .
The Sydney lesbian community , though still active around Oxford street , is well established and visible in Newtown and Enmore in Culture of Sydney inner west .
There is also a history of lesbian community congregating in Leichhardt , and other inner west suburbs .
The Sapphic Sydney website is a relatively new resource which details events and community groups as well as featuring a local business directory .
Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or Mona Lisa ) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Italian artist Leonardo da Vinci , which has been acclaimed as `` the best known , the most visited , the most written about , the most sung about , the most parodied work of art in the world '' .
The sense of overall harmony achieved in the painting -- especially apparent in the sitter 's faint smile -- reflects the idea of a link connecting humanity and nature .
Despite the treatments , the Mona Lisa has been well cared for throughout Mona Lisa history , and although the panel 's warping caused the curators `` some worry '' , the 2004 -- 05 conservation team was optimistic about the future of the work .
Sometime between 1888 and 1905 , or perhaps during the picture 's theft , the upper brace fell out .
In response to warping and swelling experienced during Mona Lisa storage during World War II , and to prepare the picture for an exhibit to honor the anniversary of Leonardo 's 500th birthday , the Mona Lisa was fitted in 1951 with a flexible oak frame with beech crosspieces .
On 6 April 2005 -- following a period of curatorial maintenance , recording , and analysis -- the painting was moved to a new location within the museum 's Salle des États .
During the mid-19th century , Théophile Gautier and the Romantic poets were able to write about Mona Lisa as a femme fatale because Lisa was an ordinary person .
Mona Lisa '' ... was an open text into which one could read what one wanted ; probably because she was not a religious image ; and , probably , because the literary gazers were mainly men who subjected her to an endless stream of male fantasies '' .
Until the 20th century , Mona Lisa was one among many and certainly not the `` most famous painting '' in the world as Mona Lisa is termed today .
, a Mona Lisa parody made by adorning a cheap reproduction with a moustache and a goatee .
Mona Lisa also inspired the children 's book Katie and the Mona Lisa by James Mayhew , adapted as a stage musical ( 2013 ) .
Because this cocoa mass usually is liquefied then molded with or without other ingredients , Chocolate is called chocolate liquor .
All of the areas that were conquered by the Aztecs that grew cacao beans were ordered to pay them as a tax , or as the Aztecs called Chocolate , a `` tribute '' .
However , the Coes write that xicalli referred to the gourd out of which the beverage was consumed and that the use of a frothing stick ( known as a molinollo ) was a product of creolisation between the Spanish and Aztec ; the original frothing method used by the indigenous people was simply pouring the drink from a height into another vessel .
Chocolate associated chocolate with Xochiquetzal , the goddess of fertility , and often used chocolate beverages as sacred offerings .
In the U.K. and Ireland milk chocolate must contain a minimum of 20 % total dry cocoa solids ; in the rest of the European Union the minimum is 25 % .
Dark chocolate , with Chocolate high cocoa content , is a rich source of epicatechin and gallic acid , which are thought to possess cardioprotective properties .
Raw chocolate , often referred to as raw cacao , is always dark and a minimum of 75 % cacao .
There are two main jobs associated with creating chocolate candy , chocolate makers and chocolatiers .
The fruit , called a cacao pod , is ovoid , 15 -- 30 cm ( or 6 -- 12 in ) long and 8 -- 10 cm ( 3 -- 4 in ) wide , ripening yellow to orange , and weighs about 500 g ( 1 lb ) when ripe .
Usually , an emulsifying agent , such as soy lecithin , is added , though a few manufacturers prefer to exclude this ingredient for purity reasons and to remain GMO-free , sometimes at the cost of a perfectly smooth texture .
The finest , plain dark chocolate couvertures contain at least 70 % cocoa ( both solids and butter ) , whereas Chocolate usually contains up to 50 % .
Some mass-produced chocolate contains much less cocoa ( as low as 7 % in many cases ) , and fats other than cocoa butter .
In 2007 , the Chocolate Manufacturers Association in the United States , whose members include Hershey , Nestlé , and Archer Daniels Midland , lobbied the Food and Drug Administration to change the legal definition of chocolate to let them substitute partially hydrogenated vegetable oils for cocoa butter , in addition to using artificial sweeteners and milk substitutes .
Currently , the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) does not allow a product to be referred to as `` chocolate '' if the product contains any of these ingredients .
Ideal storage temperatures are between 15 and 17 C , with a relative humidity of less than 50 % .
The Hershey Company , known for their Hershey bar , Hershey 's Kisses and Reese 's Peanut Butter Cups , is the largest chocolate manufacturer in North America .
The chocolate industry , a steadily growing , $ 50 billion-a-year worldwide business centered on the sale and consumption of chocolate , is prevalent on five out of seven continents .
Big Chocolate , as Chocolate is also called , is essentially an oligopoly between major international chocolate companies in Europe and the U.S.
The first was Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory , a 1971 film which later became a cult classic , and spawned the real world Willy Wonka Candy Company , which produces chocolate products to this day .
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory was also recognized at the 78th Academy Awards , where Chocolate was nominated for Best Costume Design for Gabriella Pesucci .
Chocolate is an oligopoly between major international chocolate companies in Europe and the U.S.
Bureau director , Dr Don Weatherburn , stated that a heroin shortage and a strong job market had contributed to a drop in crime .
Otto Rank ( April 22 , 1884 -- October 31 , 1939 ) was an Austrian psychoanalyst , writer , and teacher .
Between 1915 and 1918 , Otto Rank served as Secretary of the International Psychoanalytical Association which Freud had founded in 1910 .
In 1924 , Otto Rank published Das Trauma der Geburt ( translated into English as The Trauma of Birth in 1929 ) , exploring how art , myth , religion , philosophy and therapy were illuminated by separation anxiety in the `` phase before the development of the Oedipus complex '' ( p. 216 ) .
The Oedipus complex , Freud explained , was the nucleus of the neurosis and the foundational source of all art , myth , religion , philosophy , therapy -- indeed of all human culture and civilization .
The recommendation in Freud 's technical papers for analysts to be emotionless , according to Ferenczi and Otto Rank ( 1924 ) , had led to `` an unnatural elimination of all human factors in the analysis '' ( pp. 40 -- 41 ) , and to `` a theorizing of experience Erlebnis '' ( p. 41 ) : the feeling experience of the intersubjective relationship , two first-person experiences , within the analytic situation .
In a 1927 lecture , Rank ( 1996 ) observes that `` surgical therapy is uprooting and isolates the individual emotionally , as it tries to deny the emotional life '' ( p. 169 ) , the same attack Otto Rank and Ferenczi had leveled against psychoanalytic practice in their joint work .
Reducing all emotional experience -- all feeling , loving , thinking , and willing -- to sex was one of Freud 's biggest mistakes , according to Otto Rank , who first pointed out this confusion in the mid-twenties .
Until the end of the 20th century , psychoanalysis had no theory of emotional experience and , by extension , no theory of emotional intelligence .
`` Otto Rank was Otto Rank best friend and Otto Rank refused to speak to Otto Rank , '' Rank said ( Taft , 1958 , p. xvi ) .
There is little reason to believe , therefore , that any of the other writers credited with helping to invent object relations theory ( Melanie Klein or Donald Winnicott , for example ) ever read the German text of this lecture , published as Zur Genese der Object-beziehung in Vol. 1 of Rank 's Genetische Psychologie ( 1927 , pp. 110 -- 22 ) .
In 1936 Carl Rogers , the most influential psychologist in America after William James , invited Otto Rank to give a series of lectures in New York on Rank 's post-Freudian models of experiential and relational therapy .
The New York writer Paul Goodman , who was co-founder with Fritz Perls of the Gestalt method of psychotherapy , one of the most popular in the world today , and one that makes Otto Rank `` here-and-now '' central to its approach , described Rank 's post-Freudian ideas on art and creativity as `` beyond praise '' in Gestalt Therapy ( Perls , Goodman and Hefferline , 1951 , p. 395 ) .
The most creative artists , such as Rembrandt , Michelangelo and Leonardo , know how to separate even from their own greatest public successes , from earlier artistic incarnations of themselves .
Comparing the process of unlearning to the `` breaking out '' process of birth , Otto Rank was the first psychologist to suggest that a continual capacity to separate from `` internal mental objects '' -- from internalized institutions , beliefs and neuroses ; from the restrictions of culture , social conformity and received wisdom -- is the sine qua non for lifelong creativity .
Beginning with birth , going through several weaning periods and the development of the individual personality , and finally culminating in death -- which represents the final separation .
The feeling of anxiety , writes Rank in Will Therapy ( 1929 -- 31 ) , divides into two currents , running in opposite directions : one toward separation and individuation ; the other toward union and collectivity .
A crisis `` seems to break out at a certain age when the life fear which has restricted the I 's development meets with the death fear as it increases with growth and maturity , '' writes Rank in Will Therapy ( 1929 -- 31 ) .
The `` fear of life '' is the fear of separation and individuation .
The `` fear of death '' is the fear of union and merger -- in essence , the loss of individuality .
Although artists begin the creative process by separating from their fellow human beings and liberating themselves from conforming to the past , escaping from the anxiety of influence , eventually the creative impulse merges into a desire for a return to `` a greater whole , '' to `` the ALL '' ( Rank , 1929 -- 31 , p. 155 ) -- in human terms , to the `` collective '' that alone has the power to immortalize the artist with the approval it grants the artwork : `` For this very essence of man , Otto Rank soul , which the artist puts into Otto Rank work and which is represented by it , is found again in the work by the enjoyer , just as the believer finds Otto Rank soul in religion or in God , with whom Otto Rank feels Otto Rank to be one .
No one has expressed the conflict between the will to separate and the will to unite better than Ernest Becker ( 1973 ) , whose award-winning The Denial of Death captured the largest -- macrocosmic -- meaning of separation and union for Rank : `` On the one hand the creature is impelled by a powerful desire to identify with the cosmic forces , to merge Otto Rank with the rest of nature .
On a macrocosmic level , the consciousness of living -- the dim awareness that we are alive for a moment on this planet as it spins , meaninglessly , around the cold and infinite galaxy -- gives human beings `` the status of a small god in nature , '' according to Ernest Becker : `` Yet , at the same time , as the Eastern sages also knew , man is a worm and food for worms .
This is the paradox : Otto Rank is out of nature and hopelessly in it ; Otto Rank is dual , up in the stars and yet housed in a heart-pumping , breath-gasping body that once belonged to a fish and still has the gill marks to prove it ... Man is literally split in two : Otto Rank has awareness of Otto Rank own splendid uniqueness in that Otto Rank sticks out of nature with a towering majesty , and yet Otto Rank goes back into the ground a few feet in order blindly and dumbly to rot and disappear forever .
Through the influence of Ernest Becker 's writings , Rank 's eternal dialectic between `` life fear and death fear '' has been tested experimentally in Terror Management Theory by Skidmore College psychology professor Sheldon Solomon , University of Arizona psychology professor Jeff Greenberg , and University of Colorado at Colorado Springs psychology professor Tom Pyszczynski .
Sheets-Johnstone compares Rank 's thought to that of three major Western philosophers -- René Descartes , Martin Heidegger and Jacques Derrida : `` Because immortality ideologies were originally recognized and in fact so named by Rank , a close examination of Otto Rank writings on the subject is not only apposite but is itself philosophically rewarding ... Rank was a Freudian dissident who , in introducing the concept of immortality ideologies , traced out historical and psychological roots of ` soul-belief ' ( Seelenglaube ) ... Otto Rank chapter points up the extraordinary cogency of Rank 's distinction between the rational and the irrational to the question of the human need for immortality ideologies '' ( Sheets-Johnstone , 2008 , p. 64 ) .
Sheets-Johnstone concludes her book on a note reminiscent of Rank 's plea for the human value of mutual love over arid intellectual insight : `` Surely it is time for Homo sapiens sapiens to turn away from the pursuit of domination over all and to begin cultivating and developing its sapiential wisdom in the pursuit of caring , nurturing and strengthening that most precious muscle which is its heart '' ( ibid.
United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) , also known as the Agriculture Department , is the U.S. federal executive department responsible for developing and executing U.S. federal government policy on farming , agriculture , forestry , and food .
The Agricultural Act of 1949 , section 416 ( b ) and Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 , also known as Public Law 480 or Food for Peace , provides the legal basis of such actions .
The NBFA 's president was invited to testify before congress on this matter numerous times following the settlement including before the United States Senate Committee on Agriculture on September 12 , 2000 when he testified that many farmers had not yet received payments and others were left out of the settlement .
The United States Department of the Interior ( DOI ) is the United States federal executive department of the U.S. government responsible for the management and conservation of most federal land and natural resources , and the administration of programs relating to Native Americans , Alaska Natives , Native Hawaiians , territorial affairs , and to insular areas of the United States .
Walker argued that these and other bureaus should be brought together in a new United States Department of the Interior .
However , land and natural resource management , Native American affairs , wildlife conservation , and territorial affairs remain the responsibilities of United States Department of the Interior .
Several cases have sought accounting of such funds from the departments of Interior ( in which the Minerals Management Service also has a role ) and Treasury in what has been a 15-year-old lawsuit .
A small group , such as members of the Osage tribe who benefit from huge Oklahoma oil revenues , will get far more , based on a formula incorporating their 10 highest years of income between 1985 and 2009 .
The wax strip passed from one eight-inch reel around the periphery of a pulley ( with guide flanges ) mounted above the V-pulleys on the main vertical shaft , where Tape recorder came in contact with either Tape recorder recording or playback stylus .
Both recording and reproducing heads , mounted alternately on the same two posts , could be adjusted vertically so that several recordings could be cut on the same strip .
Magnetic recording was conceived of as early as 1877 by the American engineer Oberlin Smith and demonstrated in practice in 1898 by Danish engineer Valdemar Poulsen .
Analog magnetic wire recording , and Tape recorder successor , magnetic tape recording , involve the use of a magnetizable medium which moves with a constant speed past a recording head .
The device used was a Marconi-Stille recorder , a huge tape machine which used steel razor tape 3 mm wide and 0.08 mm thick .
This meant that the length of tape required for a half-hour programme was nearly 3 kilometres and a full reel weighed 25 kg .
Analysts such as Richard H. Ranger believed that the broadcasts had to be transcriptions , but their audio quality was indistinguishable from that of a live broadcast and their duration was far longer than was possible with 78 rpm discs .
Keen to make use of the new recorders as soon as possible , Crosby invested $ 50,000 of his own money into the Californian electronics company Ampex , and the tiny six-man concern ( headed by Alexander M. Poniatoff , whose initials became part of the company name ) soon became the world leader in the development of tape recording , revolutionising radio and recording with Tape recorder famous Model 200 tape deck , issued in 1948 and developed directly from Mullin 's modified Magnetophons .
Philips ' development of the Compact Cassette in 1963 and Sony 's development of the Walkman in 1979 led to widespread consumer use of magnetic audio tape .
Different tape material requires differing amounts of bias , which is why most recorders have a switch to select this ( or , in Tape recorder , switch automatically based on cutouts in the cassette shell ) .
A machine with built-in speakers and audio power amplification to drive them is usually called a `` tape recorder '' or -- if Tape recorder has no record functionality -- a `` tape player , '' while one that requires external amplification for playback is usually called a `` tape deck '' ( regardless of whether Tape recorder can record ) .
Tape recorder also , for the first time , allowed broadcasters , regulators and other interested parties to undertake comprehensive logging of radio broadcasts for legislative and commercial purposes , leading to the growth of the modern media monitoring industry .
Innovations , like multitrack recording and tape echo , enabled radio programs and advertisements to be pre-produced to a level of complexity and sophistication that was previously unattainable and tape also led to significant changes to the pacing of program content , thanks to the introduction of the endless-loop tape cartridge .
Professional decks will use higher tape speeds , with 15 and 30 inches per second being most common , while lower tape speeds are usually used for smaller recorders and cassette players , in order to save space where fidelity is not as critical as in professional recorders .
The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development ( HUD ) is a Cabinet department in the Executive branch of the United States federal government .
The mission of the Office of Inspector General ( OIG ) is to : The OIG accomplishes United States Department of Housing and Urban Development mission by conducting investigations pertinent to United States Department of Housing and Urban Development activities ; by keeping Congress , the Secretary , and the public fully informed of United States Department of Housing and Urban Development activities , and by working with staff ( in this case of HUD ) in achieving success of United States Department of Housing and Urban Development objectives and goals .
The Department 's budget increased by $ 14B between 2002 and 2004 , from $ 46B to $ 60B .
The Federal Interagency Committee on Education ( FICE ) is known in higher education for originating the FICE code , the six-digit institutional identifier assigned to each higher education ( two-year and above ) institution .
After Hisquierdo v. Hisquierdo for railroad retirement and McCarty v. McCarty for military retirement only a brief addition of family law to the USC was needed .
By 2000 , the VHA had 10,000 fewer employees than in 1995 and a 104 % increase in patients treated since 1995 , and had managed to maintain the same cost per patient-day , while all other facilities ' costs had risen over 30 % to 40 % during the same time frame .
The benefits provided include disability compensation , pension , education , home loans , life insurance , vocational , rehabilitation , survivors ' benefits , medical benefits , and burial benefits .
Veterans with a 50 % or higher service-connected disability as determined by United States Department of Veterans Affairs regional office `` rating board '' ( e.g. , losing a limb in battle , PTSD , etc. ) are provided comprehensive care and medication at no charge .
Veteran service organizations such as the American Legion , Veterans of Foreign Wars , and Disabled American Veterans , as well as state-operated Veterans Affairs offices and County Veteran Service Officers ( CVSO ) , have been known to assist veterans in the process of getting care from the VA.
As an academic discipline at university level , Music technology ( meaning music produced using software or electronic hardware ) first emerged in the middle of the 1980s , most notably at the University of York , where the Departments of Music and Electronics set up a joint Masters programme in Music technology in 1986 .
Sequencer software programs , such as Pro Tools , Logic Audio and many others , are perhaps the most widely used form of contemporary music technology .
and Robbin Crosby eats a lot more than Robbin Crosby do .
Robbin Crosby memorial was at Windansea Beach in La Jolla , California ; friends and family on surfboards spread Robbin Crosby ashes out at sea .
Toastmasters International ( TI ) is a nonprofit educational organization that operates clubs worldwide for the purpose of helping members improve Toastmasters International communication , public speaking and leadership skills .
The club performed Toastmasters International intended purpose as leadership and speech improved in the other educational groups with which these young men were associated .
The new association needed a name , and because a club now existed in British Columbia , Canada , Toastmasters International chose to call Toastmasters International Toastmasters International .
A Toastmasters International club adopts a `` learn-by-doing '' philosophy , wherein each member learns at a pace suitable to his or her developmental needs .
The advanced manuals have five projects each , and each manual focuses on a particular aspect of communication ( such as technical presentations , storytelling , or interpersonal communication ) .
There are three levels of Advanced Communicator , being Bronze , Silver and Gold , with the respective post-nominals ACB , ACS and ACG .
Upon completion , a member can obtain his or her Competent Leader award ( post-nominal CL ) .
For AL Silver , the additional requirements of serving a year as a district officer , completing a High Performance Leadership program , and being a club sponsor , mentor , or coach are needed to attain that designation .
While some aspects of parliamentary procedure and etiquette are present throughout the meeting , the business portion of a club meeting allows for more in-depth experience .
These include The Leadership Excellence Series which deals with individual leadership skills , and The Successful Club Series which are targeted at the club as a group .
`` Table Topics '' is an extemporaneous speaking exercise where the speaker speaks `` off the cuff '' ; that is , the speaker responds to a question or topic that is not known beforehand .
The program requires applicants to have their AC Bronze ( or older equivalent ) award , as well as have performed at least twenty-five speaking engagements in the three years prior to applying .
Each contest has a special tie-breaking judge or chief judge , who ranks all candidates ; this ranked list is used to break any ties in the contest .
The most common use of this is by coast radio stations before the broadcast of navigational warnings and meteorological information .
Mayday : This is the most important call that can be made , due to the fact that Securite directly threatens life or the vessel .
Legislative assemblies in all countries , because of Parliamentary procedure nature , tend to have a specialized set of rules that differ from parliamentary procedure used by clubs and organizations .
In the United Kingdom , Thomas Erskine May 's ( often referred to simply as Erskine May ) is the accepted authority on the powers and procedures of the Westminster parliament .
Of the 99 state legislative chambers in the United States ( two for each state except Nebraska , which has a unicameral legislature ) , Mason 's Manual of Parliamentary procedure governs parliamentary procedures in 70 ; Jefferson 's Manual governs 13 , and Robert 's Rules of Order governs five .
Sir Patrick Stewart , OBE ( born 13 July 1940 ) is an English film , television and stage actor , who has had a distinguished career on stage and screen .
Patrick Stewart was reluctant to sign the standard contract of six years but did so as Patrick Stewart , Patrick Stewart agent , and others Stewart consulted with , all believed that the new show would quickly fail and Patrick Stewart would return to Patrick Stewart London stage career after making some money .
Stewart eventually came to better understand the cultural differences between the stage and television , however , and Patrick Stewart favourite technical line became `` space-time continuum '' .
From 1994 to 2002 , Patrick Stewart also portrayed Picard in the films ( 1994 ) , ( 1996 ) , ( 1998 ) , and ( 2002 ) ; and in s pilot episode '' '' .
On being questioned about the significance of Patrick Stewart role compared to Patrick Stewart distinguished Shakespearean career , Stewart has said that : `` The fact is all of those years in Royal Shakespeare Company -- playing all those kings , emperors , princes and tragic heroes -- were nothing but preparation for sitting in the captain 's chair of the Enterprise '' .
The accolades Stewart has received include the readers of TV Guide in 1992 choosing Patrick Stewart with Cindy Crawford , of whom Patrick Stewart had never heard , as television 's `` most bodacious '' man and woman .
Patrick Stewart has also since voiced that role as Xavier in 4 video games including : X-Men Legends , X-Men Legends II , and .
The film pays a great deal of attention to Shatner 's interviews with Stewart at Patrick Stewart home in Oxfordshire as well as at a Star Trek Convention in Las Vegas , Nevada ; Stewart reveals the fear and personal failings that came along with Patrick Stewart tenure as a Starfleet captain , but also the great triumphs Patrick Stewart believes accompanied Patrick Stewart role as Captain Jean-Luc Picard .
Stewart had wanted to play the title role since the age of 14 , so Patrick Stewart and director Jude Kelly inverted the play so Othello became a comment on a white man entering a black society .
When Stewart began playing Macbeth in the West End in 2007 , some said that Patrick Stewart was too old for the role ; however , Patrick Stewart and the show again received excellent reviews , with one critic calling Stewart `` one of our finest Shakespearean actors '' .
Reviewers stated that Patrick Stewart interpretation captured well the balance between humour and despair that characterises the work .
Stewart and Patrick Stewart first wife , Sheila Falconer , have two children : Daniel Stewart and Sophie Alexandra .
Stewart 's son Daniel is a television actor , and has appeared alongside Patrick Stewart father in the 1993 made for television film Death Train , and the 1992 Star Trek episode '' '' playing Patrick Stewart son .
At the time , 477 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Pulvillus and Lanatus ( or , less frequently , year 277 Ab urbe condita ) .
Henry , known as the Young King ( 28 February 1155 -- 11 June 1183 ) , was the second of five sons of King Henry II of England and Eleanor of Aquitaine but the first to survive infancy .
We can see this from Henry the Young King appearances in the History of William Marshal , the biography of the knight assigned to Henry the Young King as a tutor in 1170 , and who became Henry the Young King tournament team leader until 1182 .
With Henry the Young King cousins , Philip , Count of Flanders , and Baldwin V , Count of Hainaut , Flanders and Namur , Henry the Young King was one of the key patrons of the sport .
The marriage was an attempt to finally settle the struggle between the Counts of Anjou and the French Kings over possession of the frontier district of the Norman Vexin , which Louis VII acquired from Henry 's grandfather , Geoffrey Plantagenet , Count of Anjou , around 1144 .
The civil war ( 1173 -- 74 ) came close to toppling the king and Henry the Young King was narrowly saved by the loyalty of a party of nobles with holdings on the English side of the Channel , and the defeat and capture of the king of Scotland .
David Crouch , one of the Marshal 's principal modern biographers , argues that the charge against William was actually one of lèse majesté , brought on by Marshal 's own arrogance and greed .
In courage and magnanimity they were nearly equal ; but in the character of their virtues there was great disparity ... Henry was admirable for gentleness and liberality ... had a commendable suavity ... commended for Henry the Young King easy temper ... remarkable for Henry the Young King clemency ... the vile and undeserving found their refuge in Henry ... was the shield of bad men ... was bent on martial sports ... bestowed Henry the Young King favours on foreigners ... Henry 's ambition magnanimously compassed the world '' .
In hindsight , the Lindros trade is seen as one of the most one-sided deals in sports history , and a major foundation for the Nordiques/Avalanche franchise successes over the next decade .
Joe Sakic was the playoff 's scoring leader with 34 points ( 18 goals and 16 assists ) and won the Conn Smythe Trophy , awarded to the most valuable player to his team during the playoffs .
He won the Hart Memorial Trophy , given to the league 's most valuable player during the regular season , the Lady Byng Memorial Trophy , awarded to the player that has shown the best sportsmanship and gentlemanly conduct combined with performance in play , the Lester B. Pearson Award and shared the NHL Plus/Minus Award with Patrik Elias of the Devils .
The title was guaranteed in the final day of the regular season , when the Avalanche beat the St. Louis Blues 5 -- 2 and the Vancouver Canucks lost against the Los Angeles Kings 2 -- 0 .
Both failed to live up to the expectations ; Kariya spent most of the 2003 -- 04 season injured and Selanne scored only 32 points ( 16 goals and 16 assists ) in 78 games .
After the 2004 -- 05 NHL lockout and the implementation of a salary cap , the Avalanche were forced to release some of their top players .
Theodore posted a 13 -- 15 -- 1 record in 2006-07 , with an 89.1 save percentage and 3.26 goals average and his six million US dollars salary became a heavy burden for the Avalanche in the salary cap era .
In the following season , in the last regular season meeting between the Avalanche and the Red Wings on March 26 , 1997 , a brawl known as the Brawl in Hockeytown broke out .
The rivalry between the Avalanche and the Red Wings was most intense from 1996 to 2002 .
The road jersey from 1995 -- 2003 , which became Colorado Avalanche home jersey in 2003 when the NHL decided to switch home and road jerseys , is predominantly burgundy and dark blue in color .
Note : Pos = Position ; GP = Games Played ; G = Goals ; A = Assists ; Pts = Points ; P/G = Points per game ; The numbers retired when the franchise was in Quebec - J. C. Tremblay 's 3 , Marc Tardif 's 8 , Michel Goulet 's 16 and Peter Stastny 's 26 - were entered back into circulation after the move to Colorado .
The 1935 film The Crusades , starring Loretta Young and Henry Wilcoxon , tells a fictionalized story of Richard and Berengaria 's marriage .
In 2009 , clove cigarettes ( as well as fruit and candy flavored cigarettes ) were outlawed in the US .
Clove are used in Indian Ayurvedic medicine , Chinese medicine , and western herbalism and dentistry where the essential oil is used as an anodyne ( painkiller ) for dental emergencies .
Clove may be used internally as a tea and topically as an oil for hypotonic muscles , including for multiple sclerosis .
Eugenol ( or Clove oil generally ) is mixed with Zinc oxide to be a temporary filling .
Clove yield no oil and are darker in color .
In fact , it is believed that Clove is found on Ternate -- Clove being between 350 and 400 years old .
Yorba 's rancho included the lands where the cities of Olive , Orange , Irvine , Yorba Linda , Villa Park , Santa Ana, California , Tustin , Costa Mesa and unincorporated El Modena , and Santa Ana, California Heights , are today .
The base was responsible for continued population growth in Santa Ana, California and the rest of Orange County as many veterans moved to the area to raise families after the end of the war .
of Santa Ana, California is land and of Santa Ana, California ( 0.90 % ) is water .
Near the intersection of the Santa Ana, California Freeway and the Costa Mesa Freeway is the newly-designated `` Metro East '' area , which the city council has envisioned as a secondary mixed-use development district .
South Coast Plaza , a major shopping center , is the primary destination of this area , which also contains several high-rise office and apartment buildings .
The wettest year in Santa Ana, California was 1941 with 32.36 in and the driest year was 1961 with 3.55 in .
Hispanic or Latino of any race were 253,928 persons ( 78.2 % ) .
9,254 households ( 12.6 % ) were made up of individuals and 3,378 ( 4.6 % ) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older .
The population was spread out with 99,678 people ( 30.7 % ) under the age of 18 , 39,165 people ( 12.1 % ) aged 18 to 24 , 102,399 people ( 31.6 % ) aged 25 to 44 , 61,375 people ( 18.9 % ) aged 45 to 64 , and 21,911 people ( 6.8 % ) who were 65 years of age or older .
There were 76,896 housing units at an average density of 2,794.4 per square mile ( 1,078.9 / km ² ) , of which 34,756 ( 47.5 % ) were owner-occupied , and 38,418 ( 52.5 % ) were occupied by renters .
The racial makeup of the city , as of 2007 , is 42.6 % White , 16.6 % African American , 0.2 % Native American , 9.4 % Asian , 0.4 % Pacific Islander , 46.3 % from some other race , and 1.5 % from two or more races .
Hispanic and Latino Americans compose 64.1 % of all residents ; 63.1 % are of Mexican descent .
The Dons of Santa Ana, California College are one of the most successful soccer teams in the state of California , and is a frequent top finisher , statewide.In 2008 , the Dons clinched their fifteenth consecutive Orange Empire Conference title .
In the state legislature Santa Ana, California is located in the 34th Senate District represented by Democrat Lou Correa , and in the 69th Assembly District , represented by Democrat Jose Solorio .
The Garden Grove Freeway ( State Route 22 ) runs along near Santa Ana, California northern border , connecting Long Beach to the west and the City of Orange to the east .
The Costa Mesa Freeway ( State Route 55 ) travels south to Costa Mesa ; and then north to the Riverside Freeway ( State Route 91 ) , providing a connection to Riverside .
Santa Ana, California operates Santa Ana, California Pacific Surfliner between San Diego to the south and either Los Angeles or Paso Robles to the north ( see Santa Ana Regional Transportation Center ) .
The larger , younger volcano to the east , Haleakalā , rises to more than 10000 ft above sea level , and measures 5 mi from seafloor to summit , making Maui one of the world 's highest mountains .
Maui last eruption ( originating in Haleakalā 's Southwest Rift Zone ) occurred around 1790 ; two of the resulting lava flows are located ( 1 ) at Cape Kīnau between Āhihi Bay and La Perouse Bay on the southwest shore of East Maui , and ( 2 ) at Makaluapuna Point on Honokahua Bay on the northwest shore of West Maui .
Although Maui Humpback face many dangers , due to pollution , high speed commercial vessels , and military sonar testing , their numbers have increased rapidly in recent years , estimated at 7 % growth per year .
Polynesians , from Tahiti and the Marquesas , were the original peoples to populate Maui .
In 2009 , the Office of Hawaiian Affairs and others successfully argued in court that sugar companies should reduce the amount of water they take from four streams .
In the 2000s , controversies over whether to continue rapid real-estate development , so-called `` vacation rentals '' in which homeowners rent their homes to visitors , and the Super Ferry preoccupied local residents .
The Super Ferry , which offered transport between Maui and Oahu is now defunct , ended by a court decision that required environmental studies from which Governor Linda Lingle had exempted the operator .
The fires produce smoke that towers above the Maui central valley most early mornings , and ash ( locally referred to as `` Maui snow '' ) that is carried downwind ( often towards north Kīhei ) .
A smaller port can be found in Maalaea Harbor located between Lahaina and Kihei .
Kauai or Kauai ( ; Hawaiian : , is geologically the oldest of the main Hawaiian Islands .
With an area of 562.3 sqmi km2 1 , Kauai is the fourth largest of the main islands in the Hawaiian archipelago , and the 21st largest island in the United States .
On the west side of the island , Waimea town is located at the mouth of the Waimea River , whose flow formed Waimea Canyon , one of the world 's most scenic canyons , and which is part of Waimea Canyon State Park .
In 1815-17 , Kaumualii led secret negotiations with representatives of the Russian-American Company in an attempt to gain Russia 's military support against Kamehameha ; however , the negotiations folded and the Russians were forced to abandon all of their presence in Kauai , including Fort Elizabeth , after it was revealed that they did not have the support of Tsar Alexander I .
The two largest groups were from the United States ( 84 % of all visitors ) and Japan ( 3 % ) .
The city of Līhue , on the island 's southeast coast , is the seat of Kauai County and the second largest city on the island .
Kapaa , on the `` Coconut Coast '' ( site of an old coconut plantation ) about 6 mi north of Līhue , has a population of nearly 10,000 , or about 50 % greater than Līhue .
The list below lists the larger or more notable of those from the northernmost end of Hawaii Route 560 to the western terminus of Hawaii Route 50 Island Reggae group Kolohe Kai originated from Pakala , Kauai .
The Descendants , a film by Alexander Payne released in November 2011 and featuring George Clooney as lead actor , has major parts shot in Kauai , where the main character and his cousins own ancestral lands which they are considering selling .
Kauai is the fourth largest of the main islands in the Hawaiian archipelago , and the 21st largest island in the United States .
Hawaii (island) is the largest and the southeastern-most of the Hawaiian islands , a chain of volcanic islands in the North Pacific Ocean .
Hawaii (island) is known as the `` Hawaii (island) '' to reduce confusion between island and the state .
Captain James Cook , the European claimed to have discovered the Hawaiian islands and call them the `` Sandwich Islands '' , was killed on Hawaii (island) at Kealakekua Bay .
Because Mauna Loa and Kīlauea are active volcanoes , Hawaii (island) is still growing .
Hawaii (island) suffered tsunami damage from earthquakes in Alaska on April 1 , 1946 , and in Chile on May 23 , 1960 .
There are also State highways 270 ( Kawaihae -- Hawi ) and 180 ( the `` Kona coffee road '' , from Honalo to State highway 190 ) , Saddle Road ( Hilo to Waimea , passing between Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea ) , South Point Road ( Highway 11 to South Point ) , etc. Rental car offices are at the international airports .
Hawaii (island) is a island , county , and Micropolitan Statistical Area located in the U.S. state of Hawaii in the Hawaiian Islands .
In February 2006 , Loretta Sanchez withdrew from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus 's political action committee , along with 5 other members , because the caucus chairman , Joe Baca , authorized political contributions to members of his family who were running for state and local offices in California .
Loretta Sanchez and other CHC members also claim that Baca was improperly elected chairman of the caucus in November 2006 because the vote failed to use secret ballots , as required in the group 's bylaws .
Politico.com reported that Loretta Sanchez claimed California Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez heard the comment from Baca and repeated it to Loretta Sanchez , yet Núñez claimed not to recall any such comment .
Sanchez has stated Loretta Sanchez is a moderate Democrat , but , in 2009 , Sanchez had a 0 % approval rating from the She represents a district in Orange County , long a bastion of suburban conservatism , and is a member of the Blue Dog Coalition and the New Democrat Coalition ; Loretta Sanchez reportedly voted with Nancy Pelosi 97.8 % of the time during the 111th Congress .
During California 's Gubernatorial recall campaign , Loretta Sanchez was one of the first Democrats to break from Governor Gray Davis and state that a Democrat should run to succeed Davis in case the recall measure passed .
Sanchez 's chief of staff , Adrienne Elrod , remarked that `` Kinde was someone whose services and counsel we trusted for many years .
The fourth Labour member in the ministry after Watson , Hughes , and Lee Batchelor , Andrew Fisher was promoted to deputy leader of the party in 1905 .
When Watson resigned in 1907 , Fisher succeeded Andrew Fisher as Labour leader , although Hughes and William Spence also stood for the position .
No coalition was formed , however the pressure from Labour brought about productive change by Deakin : Andrew Fisher agreed to a royal commission into the post office , old-age pensions were to be provided from the surplus revenue fund and # 250,000 set aside for ships for an Australian Navy .
At the 1910 election , Labour gained sixteen additional seats to hold a total of forty-two of the seventy-five House of Representative seats , and all eighteen Senate seats up for election to hold a total of twenty-two out of thirty-six seats .
This gave Labour control of both Houses and enabled Fisher to form Andrew Fisher Second Fisher Ministry , Australia 's first elected federal majority government , Australia 's first elected Senate majority , and the world 's first Labour Party majority government .
Fisher 's second government also introduced uniform postal charges throughout Australia , carried out measures to break up land monopolies , put forward proposals for more regulation of working hours , wages and employment conditions , and amended the 1904 Conciliation and Arbitration Act to provide greater authority for the court president and to allow for Commonwealth employees ' industrial unions , registered with the Arbitration Court .
Sir Richard le Breton ( or Richard de Brito ) was one of the four knights who murdered Saint Thomas Becket .
A later relative , Simon Le Breton , had two sons , Richard and Edmund , who inherited their share of Sanford and Great Master Bridge .
During the attack on Becket in 1170 by the four knights , Sir Reginald FitzUrse , Sir Hugh de Morville , Brito and Sir William de Tracy , Brito is said to have broken Richard le Breton sword when chopping at Becket 's head .
Jackson Structured Programming ( JSP ) is a method for structured programming based on correspondences between data stream structure and program structure .
Because JSP focusses on the existing input and output data streams , designing a program using JSP is claimed to be more straightforward than with other structured programming methods , avoiding the leaps of intuition needed to successfully program using methods such as top-down decomposition .
In 2006 , nearly 80 years after Disney left Universal , The Walt Disney Company managed to acquire the intellectual property of Oswald ( with NBC/Universal effectively trading Oswald for the services of Al Michaels as play by play announcer on NBC Sunday Night Football ) , and the catalog of Disney-produced Oswald films .
The game 's metafictional plot parallels Oswald 's real-world history , dealing with Oswald the Lucky Rabbit feelings of abandonment by Disney , and jealousy towards Mickey Mouse .
The first Oswald cartoon , Poor Papa , was rejected by the Universal studio heads for Oswald the Lucky Rabbit poor production quality and the sloppiness and age of Oswald .
By a coincidence , Disney and Mintz each produced nine cartoons the first year and 17 the next , before Oswald was taken over by others .
Animator Bill Nolan did the voice of Oswald in Cold Turkey , the first Lantz cartoon with dialogue , and the following year Pinto Colvig , who was working as an animator and gag man at the studio , started voicing Oswald .
These included Toby Bear , Maggie Lou the wooden doll , Hi-Yah Wahoo the turtle-faced Indian , and Woody Woodpecker -- depicted as a mechanical doll filled with nuts and bolts ( hence his `` nutty '' behavior ) .
Floyd and Lloyd , `` Poppa Oswald 's '' new sons , stuck around ; Toby was relegated to the sidelines , disappearing for good in 1953 .
Through the end of the 20th century , the foreign comics carried on the look and story style of the Dell Oswald stories .
In February 2006 , Disney CEO Bob Iger initiated a trade with NBC Universal in which a number of minor assets , including the rights to Oswald , were acquired by The Walt Disney Company in exchange for sending sportscaster Al Michaels from Disney 's ABC and ESPN to NBC Sports .
Universal transferred the copyright to Oswald the Lucky Rabbit to Disney , and in exchange , Disney released Michaels from his employment contract , allowing him to sign with NBC .
Around the same time , the Kansas City Chiefs and New York Jets made a similar deal , the Chiefs giving the Jets a draft pick as compensation for releasing coach Herm Edwards from his contract .
Oswald the Lucky Rabbit is the second game in the Epic Mickey series and for the first time , Oswald the Lucky Rabbit is a playable character in the game .
The two team up , with Mickey wielding a magical paint brush with the power of paint and paint thinner while Oswald holds a powerful remote control which can command electricity .
Pain first , vomiting next and fever last has been described as the classic presentation of acute appendicitis .
Later , as the appendix becomes more swollen and irritates the adjoining abdominal wall , Appendicitis tends to localize over several hours into the right lower quadrant , except in children under three years .
The causative agents include foreign bodies , trauma , intestinal worms , lymphadenitis , and , most commonly , calcified fecal deposits known as appendicoliths or fecaliths The occurrence of obstructing fecaliths has attracted attention since their presence in patients with appendicitis is significantly higher in developed than in developing countries , and an appendiceal fecalith is commonly associated with complicated appendicitis .
This sign , developed in and popular in southwest England , describes a firm swish of the examiner 's index and middle finger across the patient 's abdomen from xiphoid sternum to first the left and then the right iliac fossa .
A positive Massouh sign is a grimace of the patient upon a right sided ( and not left ) sweep , because initial stage appendicitis usually causes localised irritation of the well-innervated peritoneum .
Psoas sign or `` Obraztsova 's sign '' is right lower-quadrant pain that is produced with either the passive extension of the patient 's right hip ( patient lying on left side , with knee in flexion ) or by the patient 's active flexion of the right hip while supine .
The pain elicited is due to inflammation of the peritoneum overlying the iliopsoas muscles and inflammation of the psoas muscles themselves .
Continuous deep palpation starting from the left iliac fossa upwards ( counterclockwise along the colon ) may cause pain in the right iliac fossa , by pushing bowel contents towards the ileocaecal valve and thus increasing pressure around Appendicitis .
Full blood count ( FBC ) , also known as complete blood count ( CBC ) , is an inexpensive and commonly requested blood test .
If Appendicitis is abnormally elevated , with a good history and examination findings pointing towards appendicitis , the likelihood of having the disease is higher .
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is an acute-phase response protein produced by the liver in response to any infection or inflammatory process in the body .
A significant rise in CRP , with corresponding signs and symptoms of appendicitis , is a useful indicator in the diagnosis of appendicitis .
This is especially true of early appendicitis before Appendicitis has become significantly distended and in adults where larger amounts of fat and bowel gas make actually seeing Appendicitis technically difficult .
Concerns about radiation , however , tend to limit use of CT in pregnant women and children .
Signs of appendicitis on CT scan include lack of oral contrast ( oral dye ) in the appendix , direct visualization of appendiceal enlargement ( greater than 6 mm in cross-sectional diameter ) , and appendiceal wall enhancement with IV contrast ( IV dye ) .
A number of clinical and laboratory-based scoring systems have been devised to assist diagnosis .
A score below 5 is strongly against a diagnosis of appendicitis , while a score of 7 or more is strongly predictive of acute appendicitis .
Appendicitis incorporates the presence of four variables made up of specific signs and symptoms ( presence of right lower abdominal tenderness = 4 points and rebound tenderness = 3 ) , laboratory findings ( presence of white blood cells greater than 12,000 in the blood = 2 ) , as well as ultrasound findings ( presence of positive ultrasound scan findings of appendicitis = 6 ) , to which scores are allocated , in the computing of a scoring to predict the presence of appendicitis.The maximum score is a total score of 15 ; where a patient scores 8 or more points , there is greater than 96 % chance that appendicitis exists .
Pain medications ( such as morphine ) do not appear to affect the accuracy of the clinical diagnosis of appendicitis and therefore should be given early in the persons care .
Historically there were concerns among some general surgeons that analgesics would affect the clinical exam in children and thus some recommended that Appendicitis not be given until the surgeon in question was able to examine the person for themselves .
During a traditional appendectomy procedure , the patient is placed under general anesthesia to keep the muscles completely relaxed and to keep the patient unconscious .
The latest methods are NOTES appendectomy pioneered in Coimbatore , India where there is no incision on the external skin and SILS ( Single incision laparoscopic Surgery ) where a single 2.5 cm incision is made to perform the surgery .
The most usual complications that can occur are pneumonia , hernia of the incision , thrombophlebitis , bleeding or adhesions .
Appendicitis is most common between the ages of 5 and 40 .
Great Barrier Reef reaches from Torres Strait ( between Bramble Cay , Great Barrier Reef northernmost island , and the south coast of Papua New Guinea ) in the north to the unnamed passage between Lady Elliot Island ( Great Barrier Reef southernmost island ) and Fraser Island in the south .
Great Barrier Reef development history is complex ; after Queensland drifted into tropical waters , it was largely influenced by reef growth and decline as sea level changed .
Lagoonal reefs are found in the southern Great Barrier Reef , and further north , off the coast of Princess Charlotte Bay .
Cresentic reefs are also found in the far north of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park , and in the Swain Reefs ( 20 -- 22 degrees south ) .
The majority of these spawn gametes , breeding in mass spawning events that are triggered by the rising sea temperatures of spring and summer , the lunar cycle , and the diurnal cycle .
The priorities for each region are created based on human and environmental threats and the Marine Bioregional Plans are drafted to address these priorities .
The decline in the quality of water over the past 150 years ( due to development ) has contributed to coral bleaching , algal blooms , and pesticide pollution .
Some key achievements made since the plan 's initial passing in 2003 were the establishment of the Reef Quality Partnership to set targets , report findings and monitor progress towards targets , improved land condition by landowners was rewarded with extended leases , Water Quality Improvement Plans were created to identify regional targets and identified management changes that needed to be made to reach those targets , Nutrient Management Zones have been created to combat sediment loss in particular areas , education programs have been started to help gather support for sustainable agriculture , changes to land management practices have taken place through the implementation of the Farm Management Systems and codes of practice , the creation of the Queensland Wetland program and other achievements were made to help improve the water quality flowing into the coral reefs .
In 2006 a review of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act of 1975 recommended are that there should be no further zoning plan changes until 2013 , and that every five years , a peer-reviewed outlook report should be published , examining Great Barrier Reef health , management , and environmental pressures .
Due to Great Barrier Reef vast biodiversity , warm clear waters and accessibility from the tourist boats called `` live aboards '' , the reef is a very popular destination , especially for scuba divers .
These act to reduce damage to the reef due to anchoring destroying soft coral , chipping hard coral , and disturbing sediment as Great Barrier Reef is dragged across the bottom .
Great Barrier Reef employs approximately 2000 people , and fishing in the Great Barrier Reef is pursued commercially , for recreation , and as a traditional means for feeding one 's family .
Arthur Ira `` Art '' Garfunkel ( born November 5 , 1941 ) is a Grammy-award winning American singer , poet , and Golden Globe-nominated actor best known for being one half of the folk duo Simon & Garfunkel .
During a three-year hiatus after Art Garfunkel break-up , Art Garfunkel starred in two Mike Nichols films , Catch-22 ( 1970 ) and Carnal Knowledge ( 1971 ) .
In late 1972 , with Simon & Garfunkel having released their Greatest Hits album and briefly reunited to perform a benefit concert for presidential candidate George McGovern , Garfunkel felt ready to return to Art Garfunkel musical career .
Art Garfunkel first album was 1973 's Angel Clare , which contained `` All Art Garfunkel Know '' along with `` Art Garfunkel Shall Sing '' and `` Travelling Boy '' as singles .
Garfunkel 's retirement lasted a full seven years , until Art Garfunkel 1988 album , Lefty ( US , Garfunkel released Art Garfunkel first compilation album in 1984 , The Art Garfunkel Album ( UK Art Garfunkel live 1996 concert Across America ( UK Garfunkel performed the theme song for the 1991 television series , Brooklyn Bridge , and `` The Ballad of Buster Baxter '' for a 1998 episode of the children 's educational television series Arthur , where Art Garfunkel was depicted as a singing/narrator moose .
Garfunkel pursued an acting career in the early 1970s , appearing in two Mike Nichols films : Catch-22 ( 1970 ) , in which Art Garfunkel played a supporting role as the 19-year old naive Lieutenant Nately , and Carnal Knowledge ( 1971 ) , a co-starring role in which Art Garfunkel played the idealistic character Sandy .
Garfunkel is an avid reader and bibliophile ; Art Garfunkel website contains a year-by-year listing of every book Art Garfunkel has read since 1968 .
When asked about Art Garfunkel musical preferences , Art Garfunkel answered , `` Art Garfunkel have a very sure-footed sense of what Art Garfunkel like , and exactly how much Art Garfunkel like it .
Give Art Garfunkel two listenings of a song , and Art Garfunkel can tell you exactly how it sits with Art Garfunkel ... Art Garfunkel know Art Garfunkel musical taste .
The molar volume , symbol Vm , is the volume occupied by one mole of a substance ( chemical element or chemical compound ) at a given temperature and pressure .
The molar volume of a substance can be found by measuring Molar volume molar mass and density then applying the relationFor ideal gases , the molar volume is given by the ideal gas equation : this is a good approximation for many common gases at standard temperature and pressure .
This is related to Molar volume by where NA is the Avogadro constant and Z is the number of formula units in the unit cell .
There are 15 urban areas ( also called a Tätort or locality ) in Kalmar Municipality .
Hydra (island) ( , pronounced in modern Greek ) is one of the Saronic Islands of Greece , located in the Aegean Sea between the Saronic Gulf and the Argolic Gulf .
Hydra (island) consists of a crescent-shaped harbor , around which is centered a strand of restaurants , shops , markets , and galleries that cater to tourists and locals ( Hydriots ) .
High speed hydrofoils and catamarans from Piraeus , some 37 nmi away , serve Hydra (island) , as do daily island ferry boats .
There is evidence of farmers and herders from the second half of the third millennium BCE , on the small flat areas that are not visible from the sea .
Hydra (island) was repopulated by farmers and herders , perhaps sailing from the mainland port of Ermioni , in the 8th Century BCE .
The population was very small in ancient times , and except for the brief mentions in Herodotus and Pausanias , has left little or no record in the history of those times .
It is clear that Hydra (island) was populated during the Byzantine Era , as vases and coins have been discovered in the area of Episkopi .
In the sixteenth century , the island began to be settled by refugees , due to the warfare between the Ottomans and Venetians .
The Treaty also provided for free passage between the Aegean and the Black Sea .
Hydriot vessels carried goods between Southern Russia in the east to the Italian ports of Ancona and Livorno in the west .
In the 19th Century , Hydra (island) was home to some 125 boats and 10,000 sailors .
During the Greek Revolution , the fleets of Hydra (island) and the other two naval islands of Psara and Spetses were able to wrest control of the Eastern Aegean Sea from the Ottoman Empire .
Once again many of the inhabitants abandoned Hydra (island) , leaving behind their large mansions and beautiful residences , which fell into ruin .
Hydra (island) is one of the Saronic Islands of Greece , located in the Aegean Sea between the Saronic Gulf and the Argolic Gulf .
Hydra (island) is vases and coins .
Hydra (island) is France , Spain and even the Americas .
Rolf Hochhuth ( born 1 April 1931 , in Eschwege ) is a German author and playwright .
Between 1955 and 1963 Rolf Hochhuth was a lector at a major West-German publishing house .
Gerstein , a devout Protestant and later a member of the SS , wrote an eyewitness report about the gas chambers and , after the war , died as a POW .
Hochhuth 's next play , Soldiers , An obituary for Geneva ( 1967 ) , alleged that Winston Churchill was responsible for the death of the Polish Prime Minister , General Władysław Sikorski , in an airplane crash in 1943 , contradicting the official version of events as an accident , and claiming that General Sikorski had been murdered on Churchill 's orders .
A passage in which Rolf Hochhuth put the chairman of the Deutsche Bank in one line with leading businessmen who had been murdered by left-wing terrorists and also with Gessler , the villainous bailiff killed by William Tell , was widely seen as advocating , or at least excusing , violence against leading economic figures .
In the 6th century BC , Miletus was the site of origin of the Greek philosophical ( and scientific ) tradition , when Thales , followed by Anaximander and Anaximenes ( known collectively , to modern scholars , as the Milesian School ) began to speculate about the material constitution of the world , and to propose speculative naturalistic ( as opposed to traditional , supernatural ) explanations for various natural phenomena .
According to Strabo : Ephorus says : Miletus was first founded and fortified above the sea by Cretans , where the Miletus of olden times is now situated , being settled by Sarpedon , who brought colonists from the Cretan Miletus and named Miletus after that Miletus , the place formerly being in possession of the Leleges.The legends recounted as history by the ancient historians and geographers are perhaps the strongest ; the late mythographers have nothing historically significant to relate .
Miletus is then mentioned in the `` Tawagalawa letter '' , part of a series including the Manapa-Tarhunta letter and the Milawata letter , all of which are less securely dated .
The Tawagalawa letter notes that Milawata had a governor , Atpa , who was under the jurisdiction of `` Ahhiyawa '' ( a growing state probably in LHIIIB Mycenaean Greece ) ; and that the town of Atriya was under Milesian jurisdiction .
Together the two letters tell that the adventurer Piyama-Radu had humiliated Manapa-Tarhunta before Atpa ( in addition to other misadventures ) ; a Hittite king then chased Piyama-Radu into Miletus and , in the Tawagalawa letter , requested Piyama-Radu 's extradition to Hatti .
This is the mythical commencement of the enduring alliance between Athens and Miletus , which played an important role in the subsequent Persian Wars .
During this time several other cities were formed by Milesian settlers , spanning across what is now Turkey and even as far as Crimea .
One remarkable artifact recovered from Miletus during the first excavations of the 19th century , the Market Gate of Miletus , was transported piece by piece to Germany and reassembled .
Miletus is the site of origin of the Greek philosophical ( and scientific ) tradition , when Thales , followed by Anaximander and Anaximenes ( known collectively , to modern scholars , as the Milesian School ) began to speculate about the material constitution of the world , and to propose speculative naturalistic ( as opposed to traditional , supernatural ) explanations for various natural phenomena .
In Norse mythology , Nidavellir ( Dark fields ) is one of the Nine Worlds and home of the Dwarves .
Zimbabwe and Namibia joined Angola in Foreign relations of Angola military intervention in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , where Angolan troops remain in support of the Joseph Kabila government .
`` Congo and Angola have agreed to suspend expulsions from both sides of the border , '' said Lambert Mende , DR Congo information minister , in October 2009 .
Nelson Mandela mediated between the MPLA and UNITA factions during the last years of Angola 's civil war .
Angola and the precursor to Russia , the Soviet Union , established relations upon Angola 's independence .
Relations between Angola and several Latin American countries , including Mexico , have become of increasing priority due to the geographical proximity and cultural similarities .
From the mid-1980s through at least 1992 , the United States was the primary source of military and other support for the UNITA rebel movement , which was led from Foreign relations of Angola creation through 2002 by Jonas Savimbi .
Relations between the United States of America and the Republic of Angola ( formerly the People 's Republic of Angola ) have warmed since Angola 's ideological renunciation of Marxism before the 1992 elections .
Angola-Israel relations , primarily based on trade and pro-United States foreign policies , are excellent .
The first notable virtuoso player was Jean-Baptiste Arban , who studied Cornet extensively and published La grande méthode complète de cornet à piston et de saxhorn , commonly referred to as the Arban method , in 1864 .
While not musically related , instruments of the Zink family ( which includes serpents ) are named `` cornetto - '' with a tonal or pitch related Latin word following the hyphen to describe the particular variant .
The Roman/Etruscan cornu ( or simply `` horn '' ) is the lingual ancestor of these .
Like the trumpet and all other modern brass wind instruments , Cornet makes a sound when the player vibrates ( `` buzzes '' ) the lips in the mouthpiece , creating a vibrating column of air in the tubing .
The standard instrumentation includes both Cornet and the trumpet ; however , in recent decades , Cornet has largely been replaced by the trumpet .
Ausiàs March ( c. 1397 -- March 3 , 1459 ) was a medieval Valencian poet and knight from Gandia , Valencia .
Several small towns were established in this period , but only a few remained to become the cities of today , because of floods and fires .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 11,497 people , 4,540 households , and 3,009 families residing in Gladstone, Oregon .
There were 4,540 households of which 32.7 % had children under the age of 18 living with them , 46.7 % were married couples living together , 14.2 % had a female householder with no husband present , 5.4 % had a male householder with no wife present , and 33.7 % were non-families .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 11,438 people , 4,246 households , and 3,014 families residing in Gladstone, Oregon .
The median income for a household in Gladstone, Oregon was $ 46,368 , and the median income for a family was $ 52,500 .
The Belgrano was outfitted with the Sea Cat anti-aircraft missile system between 1967 and 1968 .
On 23 April , the British Government clarified in a message that was passed via the Swiss Embassy in Buenos Aires to the Argentine government that any Argentine ship or aircraft that was considered to pose a threat to British forces would be attacked '' .
On 30 April this was upgraded to a Total Exclusion Zone within which any sea vessel or aircraft from any country entering the zone may have been fired upon without further warning .
Two Task Groups , designated 79.1 which included the aircraft carrier , ARA Veinticinco de Mayo plus two guided missile destroyers , and 79.2 which included three Exocet missile armed frigates , both sailed to the north .
There was considerable controversy surrounding the legality of the sinking of ARA General Belgrano due to disagreement on the exact nature of the Maritime Exclusion Zone and whether the Belgrano had been returning to port at the time of the sinking .
I would like to be quite precise that , as far as I was concerned , the 200-mile limit was valid until 1 May , that is while diplomatic negotiations were taking place and/or until a real act of war took place , and that had happened on 1 May '' .
Admiral Sandy Woodward , who commanded a British aircraft task force during the war , wrote in his 1997 book `` One Hundred Days '' that HMS Conqueror received a signal changing the rules of engagement and that `` The change said quite clearly he may now attack the Belgrano , outside the TEZ '' .
The Suns headline `` Gotcha '' is probably the most notable ( and notorious ) headline in a British newspaper about the incident .
After early editions went to press further reports suggested a major loss of life and Mackenzie toned down the headline in later editions to read `` Did 1,200 Argies drown ?
Despite ARA General Belgrano notoriety , few readers in the UK saw the headline at first hand as ARA General Belgrano was only used on copies of the first northern editions ; southern editions and later editions in the north carried the toned-down headline .
In August 1994 , an official Argentine Defence Ministry report written by armed forces auditor Eugenio Miari was released which described the sinking of the Belgrano as `` a legal act of war '' , explaining that `` acts of war can be carried out in all of the enemy 's territory '' and `` they can also take place in those areas over which no state can claim sovereignty , in international waters '' Argentinian veterans were said to be dismayed at the conclusion about the Belgrano and the President of the Federation of Argentine War Veterans Luis Ibanez hoped to produce more witnesses to show that the sinking was a war crime .
Ultraviolet -- visible spectroscopy or ultraviolet-visible spectrophotometry ( UV-Vis or UV/Vis ) refers to absorption spectroscopy or reflectance spectroscopy in the ultraviolet-visible spectral region .
This means Ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy uses light in the visible and adjacent ( near-UV and near-infrared ( NIR ) ) ranges .
The Woodward-Fieser rules , for instance , are a set of empirical observations used to predict λmax , the wavelength of the most intense UV/Vis absorption , for conjugated organic compounds such as dienes and ketones .
In practice the concentration of the sample or the optical path length must be adjusted to place the unknown absorbance within a range that is valid for the instrument .
In the Beer-Lambert law , varying concentration and path length has an equivalent effect -- diluting a solution by a factor of 10 has the same effect as shortening the path length by a factor of 10 .
67 ( 1990 ) 757 , and Absorption flattening in the optical spectra of liposome-entrapped substances , Wittung , Kajanus , Kubista , Malmström , FEBS Lett 352 ( 1994 ) 37 ) .
These include spectral interferences caused by absorption band overlap , fading of the color of the absorbing species ( caused by decomposition or reaction ) and possible composition mismatch between the sample and the calibration solution .
Single photodiode detectors and photomultiplier tubes are used with scanning monochromators , which filter the light so that only light of a single wavelength reaches the detector at one time .
The reference beam intensity is taken as 100 % Transmission ( or 0 Absorbance ) , and the measurement displayed is the ratio of the two beam intensities .
The detector alternates between measuring the sample beam and the reference beam in synchronism with the chopper .
Samples for UV/Vis spectrophotometry are most often liquids , although the absorbance of gases and even of solids can also be measured .
Unlike the high-maintenance Persian , the Exotic is able to keep Exotic Shorthair own fur tidy with little human assistance , though weekly brushing and combing is recommended to remove loose hair and reduce shedding and hairballs .
Gutka or Gutkha ( Hindi : गुटखा , Gujarati : ગુટખા , Punjabi : ਗੁਟਖਾ , Urdu : گٹکھا ) is a preparation of crushed areca nut ( also called betel nut ) , tobacco , catechu , paraffin , slaked lime and sweet or savory flavorings .
After gutkha is consumed , it is generally spat onto a wall or at the ground , causing an unsightly red stain that is quite resistant to the elements .
According to the Food Safety and Standards ( Prohibition and Restriction on Sales ) Regulations , 2011 of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India , misleading advertisement of such products invites a fine of 1,000000 .
Gutka is a preparation of crushed areca nut ( also called betel nut ) , tobacco , catechu , paraffin , slaked lime and sweet or savory flavorings .
As their neighbour , Hannah Roscoe , the narrator 's grandmother , a Native American woman whose white husband left her and their six year old son for good , quietly observes the Goodnoughs and also , on Ada 's request , helps deliver Edith and Lyman .
Lyman , tall , inexperienced in the ways of the world and deeply frustrated , finally sees his chance of escape when , in 1941 , the United States is attacked by Japan .
Sanders says nothing , allowing that when you live out in the country you come to understand your neighbors , or at least accept them , because you all know how hard life can be .
Pa amb tomàquet ( , literally in English : `` Bread with tomato '' ) or pa amb oli ( Majorcan : , literally in English : `` Bread with olive oil '' ) is a simple and typical recipe in Aragon , Catalonia , Majorca and Valencia .
The traditional way to get all the flavours mixed well without having to premake a sauce , is to cut off the heel of a baguette and use Pa amb tomàquet to gently but firmly press all of the ingredients together .
Widely regarded as the epitome of Catalan cuisine and identity , some sources claim Pa amb tomàquet is actually a relatively recent ( mid to late 19th century ) in all the Mediterranean coast of Spain .
Cotton Mather , FRS ( February 12 , 1663 -- February 13 , 1728 ; A.B. 1678 , Harvard College ; A.M. 1681 , honorary doctorate 1710 , University of Glasgow ) was a socially and politically influential New England Puritan minister , prolific author and pamphleteer ; Cotton Mather is often remembered for Cotton Mather role in the Salem witch trials .
The most important of these , Magnalia Christi Americana ( 1702 ) , comprises seven distinct books , many of which depict biographical and historical narratives to which later American writers , such as Nathaniel Hawthorne , Elizabeth Drew Stoddard , and Harriet Beecher Stowe , would look in describing the cultural significance of New England for later generations after the American Revolution .
Cotton Mather , as a Puritan thinker and social conservative , drew on the language of the Bible to speak to contemporary audiences .
The unease and self-deception that characterized that period of colonial history would be revisited in many forms at political and social moments of crisis ( such as the Salem witch trials , which coincided with frontier warfare and economic competition among Indians and French and other European settlers ) and during lengthy periods of cultural definition ( such as the American Renaissance of the late 18th - and early 19th-century literary , visual , and architectural movements , which sought to capitalize on unique American identities ) .
Increase Mather was a pastor of the Old North Church and president of Harvard College ; Cotton Mather led an accomplished life that Cotton was determined to live up to .
The practice of smallpox inoculation ( as opposed to the later practice of vaccination ) was developed possibly in 8th century India or 10th Century China .
Spreading its reach in seventeenth-century Turkey , inoculation or , rather , variolation , involved infecting a person through a cut in the skin with exudate from a patient with a relatively mild case of smallpox ( variola ) , in order to bring about a manageable and recoverable infection that would provide later immunity .
Boylston and Mather 's inoculation crusade `` raised a horrid Clamour '' amongst the people of Boston .
Both Boylston and Mather were `` Objects of their Fury ; their furious Obloquies and Invectives , '' which Mather acknowledges in Cotton Mather diary .
Puritan theology , with God as Creator and the laws of nature as God 's `` second causes '' encouraged such experimentation .
As news rolled in from town to town and correspondence arrived from overseas , reports of horrific stories of suffering and loss due to smallpox stirred mass panic among the people .
Cotton Mather wrote that `` whether a Christian may not employ this Medicine ( let the matter of it be what it will ) and humbly give Thanks to God 's good Providence in discovering of it to a miserable World ; and humbly look up to Cotton Mather Good Providence ( as we do in the use of any other Medicine ) It may seem strange , that any wise Christian can not answer it .
The Puritan minister began to embrace the sentiment that smallpox was an inevitability for anyone , both the good and the wicked , yet God had provided them with the means to save themselves .
Additionally , by the 1750s , innovations and experience with inoculation focused on better insertion of pox fluid and preparation of body to withstand the disease .
Even today , the procedure is credited with ending the devastation caused by the early epidemics , and vaccination , in many ways an updated and modernized form of the procedure , continues to be recommended by the Centers for Disease Control for at-risk populations , such as potential victims of bioterrorism , and research scientists who work with surviving strains of the virus .
Sir William Phips , governor of the newly chartered Province of Massachusetts Bay , appointed Cotton Mather lieutenant governor , William Stoughton , as head of a special witchcraft tribunal and then as chief justice of the colonial courts , where Cotton Mather presided over the witch trials .
The original full version of the letter , called Return of the Several Ministers dated June 15 , 1692 , and had already been reprinted in the fall 1692 in the final two pages of Increase Mather 's Cases of Conscience .
Calef calls it `` perfectly Ambidexter , giving as great as greater Encouragement to proceed in those dark methods , then cautions against them ... indeed the Advice then given , looks most like a thing of Cotton Mather Composing , as carrying both Fire to increase and Water to quench the Conflagration '' .
Bancroft notes that Cotton Mather considered witches `` among the poor , and vile , and ragged beggars upon Earth , '' and Bancroft asserts that Cotton Mather considered the people against the witch trials to be witch advocates .
Of the principal actors in the trial , whose lives are recorded after , only Cotton Mather and Cotton Mather ally William Stoughton never admitted any guilt .
Upham 's book runs to almost 1,000 pages and a quick search of the name Mather ( referring to either father , son , or ancestors ) shows that it occurs 96 times ; Poole 's critique , in book form , runs less than 70 pages but the name `` Mather '' occurs many times that .
Upham shows a balanced and complicated view of Cotton Mather such as this first mention : `` One of Cotton Mather 's most characteristic productions is the tribute to Cotton Mather venerated master .
In 1914 , the historian George Lincoln Burr sided with Upham in a note on Thomas Brattle 's letter , `` The strange suggestion of W. F. Poole that Brattle here means Cotton Mather Cotton Mather , is adequately answered by Upham ... '' Burr also reprinted Calef in full and dug deep into the historical record for information on the man and concludes '' ... that Cotton Mather had else any grievance against the Mathers or their colleagues there is no reason to think '' .
Robert Calef 's observation of Mather 's dealings with Margaret Rule suggested Mather 's motivation for keeping quiet was blackmail , with Mather perceived as drawing information from her through leading questions , and possibly having a prurient interest -- `` Smutty '' in Mather 's words -- in Cotton Mather intimate dealings with afflicted young women .
After others had lamented the roles they played in the executions of nineteen and imprisonment of hundreds , Mather remained the chief defender of the trials , which diminishes the view of Cotton Mather as a moderate influence .
Rosenthal suggests that Mather might have had guilty feelings -- feigned or not -- for choosing not to restrain the judges during the trial , though Cotton Mather was in the best position to do so .
Historian Larry Gragg highlights Mather 's cloudy thinking and confusion between sympathy for the possessed , and the boundlessness of spectral evidence when Cotton Mather stated , `` the devil have sometimes represented the shapes of persons not only innocent , but also the very virtuous '' .
People did not have to choose one or the other and in Biblia Americana Mather looked at the Bible through a scientific perspective , the complete opposite of when Cotton Mather wrote The Christian Philosopher , in which Cotton Mather decided to approach science in a religious manner ( Smolinski 280-281 ) .
The Puritan execution sermon , preached on the occasion of a public hanging , then quickly printed up in pamphlet form and sold for a few pence , was an early form of true-crime literature .
Mather 's first published sermon , which appeared in 1686 , concerned the crime and punishment of James Morgan , a reprobate who in a drunken rage impaled a man with an iron spit .
Cotton Mather is a socially and politically influential New England Puritan minister .
Davis County was created on October 5 , 1850 , with Farmington designated as Davis County, Utah county seat , because of Davis County, Utah geographic location midway between boundaries at the Weber River on the north and the Jordan River on the south .
The Great Salt Lake in the west , which is surrounded by marshland and mudflats , lies at an average elevation of approximately 4200 ft , varying depending on the water level , which can lead to drastic changes in the lake size due to Davis County, Utah shallowness .
The narrow , populated portion that lies between the Great Salt Lake and the Wasatch Range is a portion of the Wasatch Front , which is very narrow at this point , complicating north-south transportation in Davis County, Utah .
This occurs when a powerful high pressure system situates itself over Wyoming , and is a common occurrence .
South Davis County, Utah commuters who work in Salt Lake County frequently encounter commuting time traffic bottlenecks between Davis and Salt Lake Counties .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 306,479 people , 93,545 households , and 76,205 families residing in Davis County, Utah .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 1,059 people , 426 households , and 287 families residing in Daggett County, Utah .
As of the 2010 census , there were 21,403 people , 7,978 households , and 5,587 families residing in Carbon County, Utah .
Cache County, Utah is a county located in the U.S. state of Utah , comprising the Cache Valley , up to the Idaho border , and the surrounding mountains .
In downtown Logan the highways split , with US-91 heading north into Idaho and US-89 heading east and northeast into Logan Canyon .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 112,656 people , 34,722 households , and 26,464 families residing in Cache County, Utah .
Escalivada or escalibada ) is a traditional Catalan dish of smoky grilled vegetables .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau , Box Elder County, Utah has a total area of , of which is land and ( 14.95 % ) is water .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 49,975 people , 16,058 households , and 12,891 families residing in Box Elder County, Utah .
Cordwainer Smith -- pronounced CORDwainer -- was the pseudonym used by American author Paul Myron Anthony Linebarger Linebarger also employed the literary pseudonyms `` Carmichael Smith '' ( for Cordwainer Smith political thriller Atomsk ) , `` Anthony Bearden '' ( for Cordwainer Smith poetry ) and `` Felix C. Forrest '' ( for the novels Ria and Carola ) .
The Instrumentality of Mankind rules Earth and goes on to control other planets later inhabited by humanity .
Cordwainer Smith is the pseudonym used by American author Paul Myron Anthony Linebarger Linebarger also employed the literary pseudonyms `` Carmichael Smith '' ( for his political thriller Atomsk ) , `` Anthony Bearden '' ( for his poetry ) and `` Felix C. Forrest '' ( for the novels Ria and Carola ) .
Mack 's approach is skeptical , and Burton L. Mack sees traditional Christian documents like the Gospels as myth as opposed to history ( here , `` myth '' is not meant to imply `` falsehood '' or `` lie '' but `` in the sense of narratives that reflect and advance specific ways of representing the world and , along with it , one 's place in it '' ) .
Though Burton L. Mack does not regard Burton L. Mack as a Historical Jesus scholar , Burton L. Mack suggests that Jesus was a wandering sage , similar in style to the Greco-Roman Cynics , and that the earliest `` Jesus Movements '' followed a similar model .
The final layer , Q3 , is very scant and thought by Mack to have been written after the Roman-Jewish war from 66-73AD .
Mack 's hypothesis presenting Jesus and the earliest Christians within the frame of Greco-Roman cynicism is controversial .
While most scholars have recognised finding Jesus within the context of first century Palestinian Judaism , Mack and other proponents go against the majority arguing that Jesus be understood in a Hellenistic context .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau , Beaver County, Utah has a total area of 2589 sqmi 1 , of which is land and ( 0.08 % ) is water .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 6,629 people , 2,265 households , and 1,697 families residing in Beaver County, Utah .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 18,607 people , 6,003 households , and 4,703 families residing in Duchesne County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Duchesne County, Utah was $ 31,298 , and the median income for a family was $ 35,350 .
These Spanish traders and explorers eventually found a more southerly route than Escalante had traveled , which became known as the Spanish Trail .
The principal trade which developed between Santa Fe and the Utah region was slavery .
The trading of Indian women and children to the Spanish , although illegal , was the purpose of the Spanish coming into the area which was to become Utah .
Following the trappers in the late to l840 's and early l850 's , government explorers came to the valley to find routes across the continent .
In addition , the coal industry , which had consisted of a few small mines which provided for local demand , expanded and several large scale operations , began .
Green River , the largest community on this side of Emery County, Utah , is more closely tied to the communities and economy of Grand County .
The San Rafael River , the life blood of Emery County, Utah , originates in the Wasatch Plateau where the headwaters are stored in several reservoirs for agricultural and industrial use .
Two of the Ute Indian names which are still with us Wasatch , meaning a gap in the mountains and Quitchupah which means a place where animals fare poorly .
Wasatch is the name of the mountains between Sanpete Valley and Castle Valley .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 10,860 people , 3,468 households , and 2,798 families residing in Emery County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Emery County, Utah was $ 39,850 , and the median income for a family was $ 44,086 .
Most of Bryce Canyon National Park lies in the southwestern part of Garfield County, Utah and the northern half of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument occupies the middle of Garfield County, Utah .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 4,735 people , 1,576 households , and 1,199 families residing in Garfield County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Garfield County, Utah was $ 35,180 , and the median income for a family was $ 40,192 .
Some contemporary Catalan authors , such as Josep Pla , Jaume Fàbrega or Eliana Thibaut i Comalada , and others like Colman Andrews , have suggested that , besides Catalonia proper , this cuisine takes in the Balearic and Valencian cuisines , but this opinion is challenged as politicised , and is not widespread , nor is it supported by either the Balearic or the Valencian government , while the Catalan government itself provides divergent points of view .
There are 11 Catalan wine-growing regions qualified by the INCAVI ( The Catalan Institute of Wine ) : Priorat , Penedès , Catalunya , Costers del Segre , Conca de Barberà , Montsant , Alella , Tarragona , Empordà , Pla del Bages and Terra Alta .
The sparkling wine cava , made mainly in the Penedès and Anoia regions , is the Catalan equivalent to champagne .
`` Moscatell '' ( Empordà ) , is a sweet Catalan wine which have similar varieties in other countries such as France , Italy , Portugal , Albania , Slovenia , Greece , Romania and Turkey , as well as other regions of Spain .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 8,485 people , 3,434 households , and 2,170 families residing in Grand County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Grand County, Utah was $ 32,387 , and the median income for a family was $ 39,095 .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 8,238 people , 2,456 households , and 1,981 families residing in Juab County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Juab County, Utah was $ 38,139 , and the median income for a family was $ 42,655 .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 6,046 people , 2,237 households , and 1,628 families residing in Kane County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Kane County, Utah was $ 34,247 , and the median income for a family was $ 40,030 .
That stated , Kane County, Utah is part of Utah 's 2nd congressional district and thus was represented by moderate Democrat Jim Matheson for many years , until 2013 .
6,589 miles ( 17,066 km ² ) of Millard County, Utah is land and of Millard County, Utah ( 3.50 % ) is water .
The Pahvant valley in Millard County, Utah has several ancient lava flows and extinct volcanoes , including the `` Black Rock '' lava flow .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 12,405 people , 3,840 households , and 3,091 families residing in Millard County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Millard County, Utah was $ 36,178 , and the median income for a family was $ 41,797 .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau , Piute County, Utah has a total area of 766 square miles ( 1,983 km ² ) , of which 758 square miles ( 1,963 km ² ) is land and 8 square miles ( 21 km ² ) ( 1.04 % ) is water .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 1,435 people , 509 households , and 389 families residing in Piute County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Piute County, Utah was $ 29,625 , and the median income for a family was $ 35,147 .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 1,961 people , 645 households , and 521 families residing in Rich County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Rich County, Utah was $ 39,766 , and the median income for a family was $ 44,783 .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 7,129 people , 2,046 households , and 1,782 families residing in Morgan County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Morgan County, Utah was $ 50,273 , and the median income for a family was $ 53,365 .
Derbyshire borders on Greater Manchester to the northwest , West Yorkshire to the north , South Yorkshire to the northeast , Nottinghamshire to the east , Leicestershire to the southeast , Staffordshire to the west and southwest and Cheshire also to the west .
Further occupation came with the Upper Paleolithic and Neolithic periods of the Stone Age when Mesolithic hunter gatherers roamed the hilly tundra .
In the moors of the Peak District signs of clearance , arable fields and hut circles were discovered after archeological investigation .
The Limestone areas of central Derbyshire were found to contain veins of lead ore , and these were mined from Roman times .
Nationally famous companies in Derbyshire are Rolls Royce , one of the world 's leading aerospace companies , based since before World War I in Derbyshire , Thorntons just south of Alfreton and Toyota , who have one of the UK 's largest car manufacturing plants at Burnaston .
Education , social services , libraries , main roads , public transport , policing and fire services , trading standards , waste disposal and strategic planning are the responsibility of the County Council .
Although Derbyshire is in the East Midlands , some parts , such as High Peak ( which incorporated former areas of Cheshire after boundary changes in 1974 ) , are closer to the northern cities of Manchester and Sheffield and these parts do receive services which are more affiliated with northern England ; for example , the North West Ambulance Service , Granada Television and United Utilities serve the High Peak and some NHS Trusts within this region are governed by the Greater Manchester Health Authority .
The independent sector includes Trent College and The Elms School - junior school to Trent College are located near Derbyshire .
There are also rugby league clubs based in the north of Derbyshire , the North Derbyshire Chargers and in Derby ( Derby City RLFC ) .
In the north of Derbyshire , three large reservoirs , Howden , Derwent and Ladybower , were built during the early part of the 20th century to supply the rapidly growing populations of Sheffield , Derbyshire and Leicester with drinking water .
The blue field represents the many waters of the county , Derbyshire rivers and reservoirs , while the cross is green to mark the great areas of countryside .
The density varies considerably throughout the county with the lowest being in the region of Derbyshire Dales at 0.88 , and highest outside of the main cities in the region of Erewash which has 10.04 people per hectare .
In Jane Austen 's novel Pride and Prejudice , Pemberley -- the country home of Fitzwilliam Darcy -- is situated in Derbyshire .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau , Salt Lake County, Utah has a total area of , of which is land and ( 8.72 % ) is water .
Rapid residential construction continues in the west-central , southwest , and southern portions of the valley .
The vast majority of traffic into and out of the Salt Lake Valley passes through only four geographic features , all of which are narrow .
These are Parley 's Canyon leading to Summit County to the east ( as well as to Morgan County to the northeast via more remote Little Dell Canyon ) , the space between the Salt Lake Anticline and the Great Salt Lake leading into Davis County to the north , the Point of the Mountain and adjacent Jordan Narrows leading to Utah County to the south , and a space ( known as Garfield ) between the Oquirrh Mountains and the Great Salt Lake leading to Tooele County to the west .
Precipitation is heaviest in late fall/early winter and in spring , while early summer is the driest season .
The valley receives 55 inches ( 140 cm ) or more of snow in a year , with up to 100 inches ( 250 cm ) received on the benches .
This weather event lasts from a few days to up to a month in extreme cases , and is caused by a very strong high pressure positioned over the Great Basin .
As of the 2010 Census , there were 1,029,655 people , 343,218 households , and 291,686 families residing in Salt Lake County, Utah .
By 2010 Non-Hispanic whites were 73.7 % of Salt Lake County, Utah population and Latinos ( of all races ) were 17.4 % of the population .
The median income for a household in Salt Lake County, Utah was $ 48,373 , and the median income for a family was $ 54,470 .
In 1942 , Camp Kearns , a massive military installation created for World War II , was created in what is now Kearns and Taylorsville on the western side of the valley .
Salt Lake County, Utah was originally governed from the Salt Lake City and County Building in Downtown Salt Lake City , but now is based at the Salt Lake County, Utah Government Center on State Street just north of Salt Lake City 's border with South Salt Lake .
Former county mayors include Peter Corroon , Nancy Workman and Alan Dayton ( Workman 's deputy mayor ; sworn in as acting mayor in September 2004 when Nancy Workman was placed on paid administrative leave ) .
See District Map Like most of Utah , Salt Lake County usually favors candidates from the Republican Party , though Salt Lake County, Utah has traditionally been more competitive in state and local elections than the rest of the state .
Salt Lake City and Murray operate their own school districts ( although a recent annexation by Murray leaves a part of the city within the Granite School District ) .
The Granite School District , the largest in the state , is a broad district that covers a swath from Kearns and Taylorsville through West Valley City , Utah and eastward to South Salt Lake and Millcreek Township , among others .
The Jordan School District , with approximately 48,000 students , covers the southwest part of Salt Lake County, Utah , including West Jordan ; the Canyons School District includes Sandy , and Draper .
On November 6 , 2007 , the east side residents of the Jordan School District in Sandy , Draper , Midvale , Cottonwood Heights , and nearby unincorporated areas , voted to split from the Jordan District .
Salt Lake City International Airport is the only airport with scheduled passenger service in Salt Lake County, Utah , and South Valley Regional Airport is the only other public airport .
SR-201 , alternatively known as the `` 21st South Freeway '' , provides access to West Valley City and the west side of the valley .
SR-68 , or Redwood Road , is the only surface street that traverses the entire valley from north-to-south .
The Jordan River Parkway trail ( and Salt Lake County, Utah northern extension , the Legacy Parkway trail ) runs north-south in the center of the valley from Utah County to Davis County ( though it has a few gaps ) , and the planned Crosstown and Parley 's trails will together form the primary east-west route from Parley 's Canyon to Garfield .
The largest health care providers in Salt Lake County, Utah are Intermountain Health Care and University of Utah Healthcare , though three major hospitals ( St Mark 's , Pioneer Valley , and the Veterans Affairs Hospital ) are run by other organizations .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau , San Juan County, Utah has a total area of 7,725 sqmi km2 , San Juan County, Utah , of which 7,820 mi ² ( 20,254 km ² ) is land and 113 mi ² ( 292 km ² ) ( 1.42 % ) is water .
Tributary canyons , cutting through rock layers of the surrounding deserts , have carved the land up with chasms , cliffs and plateaus .
The 2000 census there were 14,413 people , 4,089 households and 3,234 families residing in San Juan County, Utah .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 29,736 people , 10,332 households , and 7,501 families residing in Summit County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Summit County, Utah was $ 64,962 , and the median income for a family was $ 72,510 .
Although George W. Bush narrowly won Summit County in 2000 and 2004 , Summit County, Utah was his worst performance in the state .
The western side of Sanpete County, Utah is bounded by the lower and drier San Pitch Mountains , which also form part of the western boundary of Sanpete County, Utah .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 22,763 people , 6,547 households , and 5,067 families residing in Sanpete County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Sanpete County, Utah was $ 33,042 , and the median income for a family was $ 37,796 .
Wanting to honor their request and needing to found new settlements where the quickly-growing population of Salt Lake could expand , Brigham Young sent a party to explore the area in August of that year .
The first non-Native Americans to see the Sevier River were most likely the Catholic fathers Silvestre Vélez de Escalante and Francisco Atanasio Domínguez as they passed through on their expedition to California in 1776 .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau , Sevier County, Utah has a total area of 1,918 square miles ( 4,968 km ² ) , of which 1,910 square miles ( 4,948 km ² ) is land and 8 square miles ( 21 km ² ) ( 0.42 % ) is water .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 18,842 people , 6,081 households , and 4,907 families residing in Sevier County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Sevier County, Utah was $ 35,822 , and the median income for a family was $ 40,110 .
Richfield is about halfway between Los Angeles , California and Denver , Colorado ; this has led to something of a boom in the hospitality industry ( motels , restaurants , etc. ) .
By 1852 , Grantsville , Batesville , and Pine Canyon ( later named Lincoln ) were settled .
Jarvis ' replacement , Benjamin Davies , noted the Goshutes had lost faith in the federal government , and recommended limiting further encroachments on Goshute land , but his suggestions were largely ignored .
The incumbent Mormon People 's Party observed several Tooele polling places on election day and lodged complaints of fraud after the Liberal Party triumphed by about 300 votes out of 2200 .
The marshals and Liberal Party candidates , outnumbered , attempted to negotiate with the armed and barricaded Mormons .
In 1876 , the territorial legislature passed bills requiring voter registration and requiring women 's suffrage for local elections -- women had been voting in state elections since 1870 .
In 1878 the Liberal majority in Tooele County, Utah disappeared , and the People 's Party regained control in 1879 after more than six months of Liberal procedural delays .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 23,530 people , 4,743 households , and 3,870 families residing in Wasatch County, Utah .
The use of rainbow flags as a sign of diversity , inclusiveness , hope and yearning has a long history .
In the German Peasants ' War of the 16th century , Rainbow flag together with the peasants ' boot ( `` Bundschuh '' ) was used as the sign of a new era , of hope and of social change .
Rainbow flag consists of six vertical colored segments , the first five of which are usually blue , yellow , red , white , and orange , while the sixth is a combination of the first five .
In Essen , Germany in 1922 , the International Co-operative Alliance ( ICA ) designed an international co-op symbol and Rainbow flag for the first `` Co-operators ' Day , '' which was held in July 1923 .
Common variations include moving the purple stripe down below the azure one , and adding a white stripe on top ( the original flag from the 60s had a white stripe on top ) .
The world 's best-known version of Rainbow flag , sometimes called ` the freedom flag ' , was popularized as a symbol of lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender ( LGBT ) pride and diversity by San Francisco artist Gilbert Baker in 1978 .
Following two deaths from the disease and requests from residents , the Utah County, Utah Health Department hired additional staff for their mosquito abatement program .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 516,564 people , 140,602 households , and 114,350 families residing in Utah County, Utah .
The first known traverse by non-Indians was made by Fathers Dominguez and Escalante ( 1776 ) , as they sought to establish a land route between California and Spanish America .
In 1847 the Great Salt Lake Valley , still a property of Mexico , was first colonized by Brigham Young and his followers .
In 1861 Young dispatched an exploring party to the Uinta Basin ; they reported that `` that section of country lying between the Wasatch Mountains and the eastern boundary of the territory , and south of Green River country , was one vast contiguity of waste and measurably valueless '' .
The extraction of natural resources including oil , natural gas , phosphate , and gilsonite constitute primary economic activity of Uintah County, Utah .
Discovery of significant dinosaur and other pre-historic remains on the eastern edge of Uintah County, Utah caused nationwide interest , which culminated in establishment of Dinosaur National Monument .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau , Uintah County, Utah has a total area of 4,499 square miles ( 11,652 km ² ) , of which 4,477 square miles ( 11,596 km ² ) is land and 22 square miles ( 57 km ² ) ( 0.49 % ) is water .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau , Washington County, Utah has a total area of 2,430 sqmi km2 , of which is land and ( 0.13 % ) is water .
The lowest point in the state of Utah is located in the Beaver Dam Wash in Washington County, Utah , where it ( seasonally ) flows out of Utah and into Arizona .
In addition to the primary and secondary schools that compose Washington County, Utah School District , Washington County, Utah is home to Dixie State College of Utah in St. George with a campus extension in Hurricane .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 90,354 people , 29,939 households , and 23,442 families residing in Washington County, Utah .
The median income for a household in Washington County, Utah was $ 37,212 , and the median income for a family was $ 41,845 .
Thousand Lake Mountain and Boulder Mountain flank Rabbit Valley on the western end of Wayne County, Utah , where beautiful forests contrast with the deserts to the east .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 2,509 people , 890 households , and 669 families residing in Wayne County, Utah .
As of the census of 2000 , there are 196,533 people in Weber County, Utah , organized into 65,698 households and 49,536 families .
The theorem establishes Shannon 's channel capacity for such a communication link , a bound on the maximum amount of error-free digital data ( that is , information ) that can be transmitted with a specified bandwidth in the presence of the noise interference , assuming that the signal power is bounded , and that the Gaussian noise process is characterized by a known power or power spectral density .
During the late 1920s , Harry Nyquist and Ralph Hartley developed a handful of fundamental ideas related to the transmission of information , particularly in the context of the telegraph as a communications system .
Hartley did not work out exactly how the number M should depend on the noise statistics of the channel , or how the communication could be made reliable even when individual symbol pulses could not be reliably distinguished to M levels ; with Gaussian noise statistics , system designers had to choose a very conservative value of M to achieve a low error rate .
Building on Hartley 's foundation , Shannon 's noisy channel coding theorem ( 1948 ) describes the maximum possible efficiency of error-correcting methods versus levels of noise interference and data corruption .
This is because it is still possible for the signal to take on an indefinitely large number of different voltage levels on each symbol pulse , with each slightly different level being assigned a different meaning or bit sequence .
If we combine both noise and bandwidth limitations , however , we do find there is a limit to the amount of information that can be transferred by a signal of a bounded power , even when clever multi-level encoding techniques are used .
In the channel considered by the Shannon -- Hartley theorem , noise and signal are combined by addition .
These undergo what has been traditionally called `` hibernation '' : the physiological state where the body temperature drops to near ambient ( environmental ) temperature , and heart and respiration rates slow drastically .
The typical winter season for these hibernators is characterized by periods of torpor interrupted by periodic , euthermic arousals , wherein body temperatures and heart rates are restored to euthermic ( more typical ) levels .
A good example of the differences between the two types of hibernation can be seen among the prairie dogs ; where the white-tailed prairie Mexican is an obligate hibernator and the closely related black-tailed prairie dog is a facultative hibernator .
Hibernation , and the species that are able to utilize Hibernation , have become fantastic models for many different human diseases .
Timothy Freke ( born 1959 ) is a British author of books on religion and mysticism .
This is despite the fact that Quebec has physical Atlantic coasts on the Gulf of St. Lawrence , Ungava Bay , and the Hudson Strait .
Outside the breeding season , male and female smooth newts are hard to distinguish -- both sexes are of similar size ( roughly 10 cm head-to-tail length ) , and a similar pale brown to yellow colouration .
The nominal subspecies , L. v. vulgaris , is found in the United Kingdom and Ireland .
Albert Sidney Johnston ( February 2 , 1803 -- April 6 , 1862 ) served as a general in three different armies : the Texas Army , the United States Army , and the Confederate States Army .
Bragg at least calmed the nerves of Beauregard and Polk who had become agitated by their apparent dire situation in the face of numerically superior forces before the arrival of Johnston on March 24 , 1862 .
Albert Sidney Johnston apparently did not think the wound was serious at the time , and so Albert Sidney Johnston sent Albert Sidney Johnston personal physician to attend to some wounded captured Union soldiers instead .
Johnston and Albert Sidney Johnston wounded horse , named Fire Eater , were taken to Albert Sidney Johnston field headquarters on the Corinth road , where Albert Sidney Johnston body remained in Albert Sidney Johnston tent until the Confederate Army withdrew to Corinth the next day , April 7 , 1862 .
Red-eared slider hunt for prey and will attempt to capture Red-eared slider when the opportunity presents Red-eared slider .
Typically , the cloacal opening of the female is at or under the rear edge of the carapace , while the male 's opening occurs beyond the edge of the carapace .
Red-eared sliders brumate over the winter at the bottom of ponds or shallow lakes ; Red-eared slider become inactive , generally , in October , when temperatures fall below 10 C .
Mating begins in May and egg-laying occurs in May through early July .
As with many other animals and inanimate objects , the risk of Salmonella exposure can be reduced by following basic rules of cleanliness .
Now , it is illegal in Florida to sell any wild-type red-eared slider , as Red-eared slider interbreed with the local yellow-bellied slider population -- Trachemys scripta scripta is another subspecies of pond sliders , and intergrades typically combine the markings of the two subspecies .
However , unusual color varieties such as albino and pastel red-eared sliders , which are derived from captive breeding , are still allowed for sale .
Palm Computing , Inc. , was founded in 1992 by Jeff Hawkins , who sought out the help of Donna Dubinsky and Ed Colligan , all of whom guided Palm to the invention of the Palm Pilot .
Palm Inc had Palm, Inc. IPO during the dot com bubble and in Palm, Inc. first day of trading the shares of the new company hit an all-time high of US$ 95.06 .
In October 2003 , the hardware division of Palm, Inc. merged with Handspring , was renamed to palmOne , Inc. and traded under the ticker symbol PLMO .
Palm, Inc. is an American smartphone manufacturer headquartered in Sunnyvale , California , that was responsible for products such as the Pre and Pixi as well as the Treo and Centro smartphones .
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate , accurate , broad or narrow theories , in all natural scientific disciplines ( physics , chemistry , biology , geology , astronomy etc. ) .
These are not laws since Laws of science have not been verified to the same degree and may not be sufficiently general , although Laws of science may lead to the formulation of laws .
In the table below , the fluxes , flows for various physical quantities in transport , and Laws of science associated continuity equations , are collected for comparison .
The action and Lagrangian both contain the dynamics of the system for all times .
The stationary value for the entire continuum of Lagrangian values corresponding to some path , not just one value of the Lagrangian , is required ( in other words Laws of science not as simple as `` differentiating a function and setting Laws of science to zero , then solving the equations to find the points of maxima and minima etc '' , rather this idea is applied to the entire `` shape '' of the function , see calculus of variations for more details on this procedure ) .
One postulate that a particle ( or a system of many particles ) is described by a wavefunction , and this satisfies a quantum wave equation : namely the Schrödinger equation ( which can be written as a non-relativistic wave equation , or a relativistic wave equation ) .
More modern laws of chemistry define the relationship between energy and Laws of science transformations .
The question is raised : was the state of the system a superposition of `` dead cat/sad friend '' and `` live cat/happy friend , '' only determined when Wigner learned the result of the experiment , or was Wigner's friend determined at some previous point ?
According to `` Many worlds '' , when Wigner's friend ( the investigator ) finds out the result of the Schrödinger 's cat experiment , the part of the world where the friend is ` decoheres irreversibly ' or splits .
So , it is maintained that Eugene Wigner splits when there is an irreversible difference between Wigner in the world where the cat survived and Wigner 's counterpart in the world where the cat died .
ACCESS Systems Americas , Inc. ( formerly PalmSource ) is a subsidiary of ACCESS which develops the Palm OS PDA operating system and Access Systems Americas, Inc. successor , the Access Linux Platform , as well as BeOS .
Access Systems Americas, Inc. is a subsidiary of ACCESS which develops the Palm OS PDA operating system and its successor , the Access Linux Platform , as well as BeOS .
Satyendra Nath Bose , along with Saha , presented several papers in theoretical physics and pure mathematics from 1918 onwards .
At the end of the trilogy , she resolves her anger toward Luke and silences the command without killing Luke , instead killing Luke 's clone -- Luuke Skywalker -- who had been made by a corrupt Jedi to challenge Luke .
Luke and Mara develop a strong bond in Zahn 's The Hand of Thrawn Duology ; he proposes marriage , and the two wed in Michael A. Stackpole 's graphic novel Union .
Cary Elwes , known professionally as Cary Elwes , is an English actor and voice actor .
Cary Elwes is known for Cary Elwes roles as Westley in the classic film The Princess Bride , Arthur Holmwood in Francis Ford Coppola 's Bram Stoker 's Dracula and for Cary Elwes role as Dr. Lawrence Gordon in Saw and .
Daniel Boone ( -- September 26 , 1820 ) was an American pioneer , explorer , and frontiersman whose frontier exploits made Daniel Boone one of the first folk heroes of the United States .
Boone is most famous for Daniel Boone exploration and settlement of what is now Kentucky , which was then part of Virginia but on the other side of the mountains from the settled areas .
Daniel Boone was a militia officer during the Revolutionary War ( 1775 -- 83 ) , which in Kentucky was fought primarily between the American settlers and the British-aided Native Americans .
Daniel Boone adventures -- real and legendary -- were influential in creating the archetypal Western hero of American folklore .
The historian John Mack Faragher cautions that the folk image of Boone as semi-literate is misleading , and argues that Daniel Boone `` acquired a level of literacy that was the equal of most men of Daniel Boone times '' .
In 1758 , a conflict erupted between the British forces and the Cherokee , their allies in the French and Indian War ( which continued in other parts of the continent ) .
Following Dunmore 's War , Richard Henderson , a prominent judge from North Carolina , hired Daniel Boone to travel to the Cherokee towns in present North Carolina and Tennessee and inform them of an upcoming meeting .
On July 14 , 1776 , Boone 's daughter Jemima and two other teenage girls were captured outside Boonesborough by an Indian war party , who carried the girls north towards the Shawnee towns in the Ohio country .
Boone and Daniel Boone men were taken to Blackfish 's town of Chillicothe , where they were made to run the gauntlet .
During Boone 's absence , Daniel Boone wife and children ( except for Jemima ) had returned to North Carolina , assuming Daniel Boone was dead .
Boone returned to Kentucky , and in August 1782 , fought in the Battle of Blue Licks , in which Daniel Boone son Israel was killed .
Although the Northwest Indian War escalated and would not end until the American victory at the Battle of Fallen Timbers in 1794 , the 1786 expedition was the last time Daniel Boone saw military action .
Boston Recorder , July 3 , 1816 Daniel Boone obituary , printed in the Missouri Gazette , October 3 , 1820 , says , `` At the age of eighty , in company with one white man and a black man , whom Daniel Boone laid under strict injunction to return Daniel Boone to Daniel Boone family dead or alive , Daniel Boone made a hunting trip to the headwaters of the Great Osage , where Daniel Boone was successful in trapping of beaver , and in taking other game '' .
According to `` The Boone Family '' book by Hazel Atterbury Spraker ( 1982 ) , `` Daniel was buried near the body of Daniel Boone wife , in a cemetery established in 1803 by David Bryan , upon the bank of a small stream called Teuque Creek about one and one-half miles southeast of the present site of the town of Marthasville in Warren County , Missouri , it being at that time the only Protestant cemetery North of the Missouri River '' .
Like John Filson , Timothy Flint also interviewed Boone , and Daniel Boone Biographical Memoir of Daniel Boone , the First Settler of Kentucky ( 1833 ) became one of the best-selling biographies of the 19th century .
Boone 's adventures , real and mythical , formed the basis of the archetypal hero of the American West , popular in 19th-century novels and 20th century films .
This did not describe the real Daniel Boone , who was not a big man and did not wear a coonskin cap .
The circular Halle des Blés ( grain exchange ) , designed by Nicolas Le Camus de Mézières , was built between 1763 and 1769 at the west end of Les Halles .
In the 1850s , the massive glass and iron buildings ( Victor Baltard Architect ) Les Halles became known for were constructed .
Unable to compete in the new market economy and in need of massive repairs , the colorful ambience once associated with the bustling area of merchant stalls disappeared in 1971 , when Les Halles was dismantled ; the wholesale market was relocated to the suburb of Rungis .
Mangin 's design for the gardens , which proposed replacing the landscaped mounds and paths of the 1980s design with a simplified pattern of east-west pedestrian promenades and a large central lawn , was selected .
STIF and RATP began plans for the remodeling of the Châtelet-Les-Halles station in 2007 , and the following year Berger and Anziutti were awarded a contract for redesign of the station .
The open-air market and Baltard 's pavilions were digitally reconstructed for the 2004 film Un long dimanche de fiançailles ( A Very Long Engagement ) , which was set after the First World War .
In fact , because of atmospheric refraction and mirages , and because the sun appears as a disk and not a point , part of the midnight sun may be seen on the night of the northern summer solstice up to about 50 ′ ( 90 km ) south of Arctic Circle ; similarly , on the day of the northern winter solstice , part of the sun may be seen up to about 50 ′ north of Arctic Circle .
Tromsø ( in Norway ) has about 69,000 inhabitants and Bodø 47,000 .
In contrast , the largest North American community north of the circle , Sisimiut ( Greenland ) , has approximately 5,000 inhabitants , while between Canada and the US , Barrow , Alaska is the largest settlement with circa 4,000 inhabitants .
Chris Sarandon ( born July 24 , 1942 ) is an American actor who is best known for playing Prince Humperdinck in the film The Princess Bride , the vampire Jerry Dandridge in Fright Night and Detective Mike Norris in the first entry of the Child 's Play series , and providing the speaking voice of Jack Skellington from The Nightmare Before Christmas .
Chris Sarandon also took roles in horror films opposite the late Margaux Hemingway in the thriller Lipstick ( 1976 ) and as a demon in the shocker The Sentinel ( 1977 ) .
Chris Sarandon received accolades for Chris Sarandon portrayal of Sydney Carton in a made for television version of A Tale of Two Cities ( 1980 ) , co-starred with Dennis Hopper in The Osterman Weekend ( 1983 ) , which was based on the Robert Ludlum novel of the same name , and co-starred with Goldie Hawn in Protocol ( 1984 ) .
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional soccer league representing the sport 's highest level in the United States and Canada , with headquarters in New York City .
Midway through the season , teams break for the annual All-Star Game , a friendly game between Major League Soccer finest players and a major club from Major League Soccer .
Players such as Cuauhtémoc Blanco of Club América signed for the Chicago Fire , and Juan Pablo Ángel , who moved from Aston Villa to the New York Red Bulls , are some of the first Designated Players who have made major contributions to their clubs .
The 2010 season ushered in an expansion franchise in the Philadelphia Union and the opening of the New York Red Bulls ' soccer-specific stadium , Red Bull Arena .
Toronto FC regional games are currently split between the TSN and Sportsnet families of channels , as a result of TFC being jointly controlled since 2012 by the two channels ' parent companies .
Major League Soccer lost more than $ 350 million between Major League Soccer founding and the year 2004 , according to a report by BusinessWeek released that year .
A year later , he revealed that the Chicago Fire , the Colorado Rapids , and Toronto FC were on track for profitability by 2008 .
Further criticism of the playoff system goes beyond this structural point and is made by those arguing playoffs in general greatly reduce the importance of the regular season ; especially since a majority of teams qualify for the postseason .
Feeding on the momentum of Women's United Soccer Association victory , the twenty US WNT players , in partnership with John Hendricks of the Discovery Channel , sought out the investors , markets , and players necessary to form the eight-team league .
In June 2004 , the WUSA held two `` WUSA Festivals '' in Los Angeles and Blaine , Minnesota , featuring matches between reconstituted WUSA teams ( often with marquee players borrowed from other teams ) , in order to maintain Women's United Soccer Association and sustain interest in women 's professional soccer .
With the WUSA on hiatus , the Women 's Premier Soccer League ( WPSL ) and the W-League regained their status as the premier women 's soccer leagues in the United States , and many former WUSA players joined those teams .
Christopher Haden-Guest , 5th Baron Haden-Guest ( born February 5 , 1948 ) , better known as Christopher Guest , is an English screenwriter , composer , musician , director , actor , and comedian who holds dual British and American citizenship .
Along with Martin Short , Billy Crystal and Harry Shearer , Christopher Guest was hired as a one-year only cast member for the season on NBC 's Saturday Night Live .
Recurring characters on SNL played by Guest include Frankie , of Willie and Frankie ( coworkers who recount in detail physically painful situations in which they have found themselves , remarking laconically `` Christopher Guest hate when that happens '' ) ; Herb Minkman , a shady novelty toymaker with a brother named Al ( played by Crystal ) ; Rajeev Vindaloo , an eccentric foreign man in the same vein as Andy Kaufman 's Latka character from Taxi ; and Senor Cosa , a Spanish ventriloquist often seen on the recurring spoof of The Joe Franklin Show .
This was Christopher Guest official style and name until Christopher Guest inherited the barony in 1996 .
This could reflect Guest 's background in theater , and simply a kind of meta-commentary , as a real performance is of course what is being improvised for the duration .
Notably , everyone who appears in these movies receives the same fee , and the same portion of profits .
Christopher Guest is currently the writer and producer of the HBO series , `` Family Tree , '' a lighthearted story in the mockumentary style Christopher Guest made famous in `` Spinal Tap , '' in which the main character , Tom Chadwick , inherits a box of curios from Christopher Guest great aunt spurring interest in Christopher Guest ancestry .
Christopher Guest is the writer and producer of the HBO series , `` Family Tree , '' a lighthearted story in the mockumentary style he made famous in `` Spinal Tap , '' in which the main character , Tom Chadwick , inherits a box of curios from his great aunt spurring interest in his ancestry .
The Chapel Hill-Carrboro school district , which covers most of the towns of Chapel Hill and Carrboro , along with portions of unincorporated Orange County , is recognized for Chapel Hill, North Carolina academic strengths .
Journalistic , Inc. , the publisher of the nationally acclaimed magazines Fine Books & Collections , QSR magazine , and FSR magazine recently relocated from Durham to Chapel Hill, North Carolina .
Meadowmont and Southern Village both have shopping centers , green space where concerts and movies take place , community pools , and schools .
Though William Barbee died shortly after establishing himself and his family in North Carolina , one of his eight children , Christopher Barbee , became an important contributor to his father 's adopted community and to the fledgling University of North Carolina .
The first group is clearly family burials , and it is reasonable that William 's father , Christopher ( Kit ) Barbee and his wife , are buried here , as this was known as ` Barbee 's Mountain ' and was their home .
Chapel Hill, North Carolina , or at least the town center , indeed sits atop a hill which was originally occupied by a small Anglican `` chapel of ease '' , built in 1752 , known as New Hope Chapel .
The town was chartered in 1851 , and Chapel Hill, North Carolina main street , Franklin Street , was named in memory of Benjamin Franklin .
This cultural community resource `` exhibiting the character and characters of Chapel Hill , North Carolina '' includes among Chapel Hill, North Carolina permanent exhibits Alexander Julian , History of the Chapel Hill Fire Department , Chapel Hill 's 1914 Fire Truck , The James Taylor Story , Farmer/James Pottery , and The Paul Green Legacy .
All versions of the seal , dating back to the 1930s , depict Athena , the Greek goddess of wisdom and protector of cities .
The US Office of Management and Budget also includes Chapel Hill, North Carolina as a part of the Raleigh-Durham-Cary Combined Statistical Area , which has a population of 1,749,525 as of Census 2010 .
According to estimates released by the U.S. Census Bureau , over the three-year period of 2005 through 2007 the median income for a household in Chapel Hill, North Carolina was $ 51,690 , and the median income for a family was $ 91,049 .
Burton United F.C. Football Club was an English football club from Burton upon Trent , Staffordshire that played in The Football League between 1901 and 1907 , before folding in 1910 .
In 1905 and 1906 Burton United F.C. finished in second last place , and in 1907 finished bottom .
However , in the next season , 1926 -- 27 Aberdare Athletic F.C. finished bottom of the Third Division South and failed to gain re-election to the league ; Torquay United took their place .
Carol Kane ( born June 18 , 1952 ) -- known as Carol Kane -- is an American stage , screen , and television actress .
Carol Kane left the production on December 30 , 2007 , and later returned from August 26 , 2008 until the production closed on January 11 , 2009 .
Coastal cities , such as Dublin , Belfast , and Cork , created vast beef curing and packing industries , with Cork producing half of Ireland 's annual beef exports in 1668 .
This was because most of the farms and Corned beef produce were owned by wealthy Anglo-Irish landlords and that most of the population were from families of poor tenant farmers , and that most of the corned beef was exported .
Although Corned beef ceased to be an important commodity in the 19th century Atlantic trade due in part to the abolition of slavery , corned beef production and Corned beef canned form remained important as a food source during World War II .
Mark Kurlansky , in his book Salt , states that the Irish produced a salted beef around the Middle Ages that was the `` forerunner of what today is known as Irish corned beef '' and in the 17th century the English named Corned beef , Corned beef .
In the United States and Canada , Corned beef typically comes in two forms , a cut of beef ( usually brisket , but sometimes round or silverside ) cured or pickled in a seasoned brine , and canned ( ` tinned ' in British English ) ( cooked ) .
Corned beef and biscuits were the main field rations of the British Army from the Boer War to World War II .
Hash and hotpot , in which potatoes and Corned beef are stewed together , are also made .
Cattle , valued as a bartering tool , were only eaten when no longer able to provide milk or to work .
Kazakh language ( also Qazaq , Qazaqşa and variants , natively , , ; pronounced ) is a Turkic language which belongs to the Kipchak ( or Western Turkic ) branch of the Turkic languages , closely related to Nogai and Karakalpak .
Today , Kazakh language is written in Cyrillic in Kazakhstan and Mongolia , while the more than one million Kazakh-speakers in China use an Arabic-derived alphabet similar to that used to write Uyghur .
One of the most distinguishing aspects of Uzbek from other Turkic languages is Uzbek language rounding of the vowel to or , a feature that was influenced by Persian .
After 1921 the Soviet regime abolished the term Sart as derogatory , and decreed that henceforth the entire settled Turkic population of Turkestan would be known as Uzbeks , even though many had no Uzbek tribal heritage .
The influence of Islam , and by extension , Arabic , is evident in Uzbek , as well as the residual influence of Russian , from the time when Uzbekistan was under tsarist and Soviet rule .
Between 1928 and 1940 , as part of comprehensive programs to educate ( and politically influence ) Uzbek people , who for the first time now had their own cartographically delineated ( administrative ) region , Uzbek writing was switched to Latin script ( Yanalif ; a proposal for the latinization of Yana imla was already developed in 1924 ) .
When Uzbek language is written using the Latin script , either the single opening quotation mark ( U +2018 ) or the okina ( U +02 BB ) is used to write the letters Oʻ ( Cyrillic Ў ) and Gʻ ( Cyrillic Ғ ) .
Currently most typists do not bother with the differentiation between the ʻokina / single opening quotation mark and modifier letter apostrophe as their keyboard layouts likely accommodate only the straight apostrophe .
Alfred Dreyfus ( ; 9 October 1859 -- 12 July 1935 ) was a French artillery officer of Jewish background whose trial and conviction in 1894 on charges of treason became one of the most tense political dramas in modern French and European history .
Dreyfus , however , officially remained a traitor in a French court of law and pointedly remarked upon Alfred Dreyfus release : `` The government of the Republic has given Alfred Dreyfus back Alfred Dreyfus freedom .
A C A locally compact group is said to be of type I if and only if C*-algebra group C However , if a C In quantum mechanics , one typically describes a physical system with a C This C.
The claim has been made in an interview with the CBC around the time of Brand 's 90th birthday , and by his son in the interview segment of Jeopardy .
Other items include Slimey , Oscar 's pet worm ; Fluffy , Oscar 's pet elephant ; Oscar 's shoes ; and a dimension gate to Grouchland USA , Oscar 's hometown .
Israeli Grouch , Moishe Oofnik , Oscar 's cousin , is the only character to survive the first Rechov Sumsum , appearing in Oscar the Grouch current reboot , English/Hebrew series Shalom Sesame , and Israeli-Palestinian co-production Rechov Sumsum/Shara ' a Simsim .
Oscar crashes through the window of the church Homer is hiding in , and demands the money while Elmo , who was hiding in the trash can with him , tells Homer he knows where he lives .
Oscar inspired an Apple Macintosh INIT written by Eric B. Shapiro and shown at the 1989 MacHack conference , featuring a singing animated Oscar that appeared from the trash can when the trash was emptied .
The hack was so popular that some parents lost the entire contents of their hard disks to preschoolers wanting to see more of Oscar , prompting Shapiro to create a stand-alone application using the same animation and sounds .
London Borough of Croydon is now a Grade II listed building and tourist attraction .
As aviation technology progressed , however , and aircraft became larger and more numerous , it was recognized in 1952 that the airport would be too small to cope with the ever-increasing volume of air traffic .
At the 2010 London Borough of Croydon local elections seats lost previously in Addiscombe , South Norwood and Upper Norwood were retaken by Labour Party councillors ; in New Addington the Conservative party gained a councillor .
Between the 2006 and 2010 elections , a by-election in February 2007 saw a large swing to Labour from the Conservatives .
London Borough of Croydon is covered by three parliamentary constituencies for the Westminster Parliament , these are London Borough of Croydon North , London Borough of Croydon Central and London Borough of Croydon South .
Former Conservative Director of Campaigning , Gavin Barwell , was a London Borough of Croydon councillor between 1998 and 2010 and since 2010 is the MP for London Borough of Croydon Central .
However , the temperance movement was equally strong , and Georgina King Lewis , a keen member of the Croydon United Temperance Council , took London Borough of Croydon upon herself to establish a dry centre for the labour movement .
Geraint Davies , the MP for London Borough of Croydon Central , had offices in the building , until he was defeated by Andrew Pelling and is now the Labour representative standing for Swansea West in Wales .
The borough is in the deep south of London , with the M25 orbital motorway stretching to the south of London Borough of Croydon , between Croydon and Tandridge .
Ashburton , to the northeast of London Borough of Croydon , is mostly home to residential houses and flats , being named after Ashburton House , one of the three big houses in the Addiscombe area .
Fairfield , just northeast of London Borough of Croydon , holds the Fairfield Halls and the village of Forestdale , to the east of London Borough of Croydon main area , commenced work in the late 1960s and completed in the mid-70s to create a larger town on what was previously open ground .
New Addington , to the east , is a large local authority estate surrounded by open countryside and golf courses .
South London Borough of Croydon , to the south of London Borough of Croydon , is a locality which holds local landmarks such as The Swan and Sugarloaf public house and independent Whitgift School part of the Whitgift Foundation .
Construction of the London Borough of Croydon Underpass beneath the junction of George Street and Wellesley Road/Park Lane during the early Sixties started , with the main aim to prevent traffic congestion on Park Lane , situated above the underpass .
The most notable tree , called Vicar 's Oak , marked the boundary of four ancient parishes ; Lambeth , Camberwell , London Borough of Croydon and Bromley .
In recent years , the development of tall buildings , such as the approved London Borough of Croydon Vocational Tower and Wellesley Square , has been encouraged in the London Plan , which will lead to the erection of new skyscrapers over the next few years as London goes through a high-rise boom .
Projects such as Wellesley Square , which will be a mix of residential and retail with an eye-catching colour design and 100 George Street a proposed modern office block are incorporated in this vision .
Apart from increasing night time activity in Croydon and thereby reducing the fear of crime , London Borough of Croydon helped to promote the sustainable use of older buildings by displaying them in a more positive way .
In 2001 the number of people per hectare in London Borough of Croydon was 38.21 , in London 45.62 , and in England 3.77 .
The mean age of the residents of London Borough of Croydon was 33.75 and 233,748 out of 330,587 residents described their health as ` good ' .
According to Your Croydon ( a local community magazine ) this is due to a stronger partnership struck between London Borough of Croydon and the police .
American International Group ( AIG ) have offices in No. 1 London Borough of Croydon , formerly the NLA Tower , shared with Liberata , Pegasus and the Institute of Public Finance .
The head office of international engineering and management consultant Mott MacDonald is located in Mott MacDonald House on Sydenham Road , one of four offices they occupy in the town centre .
Grants is an entertainment venue in the centre of London Borough of Croydon which includes a Vue cinema and the Tiger Tiger nightclub .
There are several busy local rail routes running along the borough 's towns , connecting London Borough of Croydon with London Bridge and London Victoria .
The light rail system Tramlink ( Operated by Tramtrack London Borough of Croydon , a wholly owned subsidiary of Transport for London ) , opened in 2000 , serves London Borough of Croydon and surrounding areas .
London Borough of Croydon network consists of three lines , from Elmers End to West Croydon , from Beckenham to West Croydon , and from New Addington to Wimbledon , with all three lines running via the Croydon loop on which it is centred on .
Addington Interchange is a regional bus terminal in Addington Village which has an interchange between route three and bus services in the remote area .
Arriva London , part of Arriva , is one of the largest bus operators to serve London Borough of Croydon along with Metrobus , Selkent , and National Express London .
London Buses route X26 , the longest route in London , provides services to Heathrow Airport via Richmond and Sutton .
Former names of the hospital include the London Borough of Croydon Union Infirmary from 1885 to 1923 and the Mayday Road Hospital from 1923 to around 1930 .
Many of the libraries were built a long time ago and therefore have become outdated , so the council started updating a few including Ashburton Library which moved from London Borough of Croydon former spot into the state-of-the-art Ashburton Learning Village complex which is on the former site of the old ' A Block ' of Ashburton Community School which is now situated inside the centre .
This means that both councils fund the library and London Borough of Croydon resources , but even though Lambeth have nearly doubled their funding for the library in the past several years Croydon has kept London Borough of Croydon the same , doubting the future of the library .
In London Borough of Croydon final medieval form , the church was mainly a Perpendicular-style structure , but this was severely damaged by fire in 1867 , following which only the tower , south porch and outer walls remained .
At the moment only three leisure centres are open for public use and two of these are expected to be closed down in the near future , with plans for only one of them to be re-built .
In May 2006 the Conservative Party took control of London Borough of Croydon and decided a refurbishment would be more economical than rebuilding , this decision caused soem controversy .
AFC Croydon Athletic , whose nickname is The Rams , is a football club who play at London Borough of Croydon Sports Arena along with London Borough of Croydon F.C. , both in the Combined Counties Division and Holmesdale , who were founded in South Norwood but currently playing on Oakley Road in Bromley , currently in the Kent League .
The first is called London Borough of Croydon World Party which is a free one-day event with three stages featuring world , jazz and dance music from the UK and internationally .
The strategy also created a creative industries hub in Old Town , ensured that public art is included in developments such as College Green and Ruskin Square and investigated the possibility of gallery space in the Cultural Quarter .
Other cultural activities , including shopping and exhibitions , are Surrey Street Market which is mainly a meat and vegetables market near the main shopping environment of London Borough of Croydon .
Members of the opposition Labour group on the council , who had banned such shareholdings when in control , described this as `` dealing in death '' and inconsistent with London Borough of Croydon tobacco control strategy .
London Borough of Croydon is a Grade II listed building and tourist attraction .
Eleanor died in 1468 , and was buried in the Church of the White Carmelites , whose benefactress Lady Eleanor Talbot was , at Norwich , England .
Because Commines does not name the `` beautiful young lady '' , and the official copy of Titulus Regius in parliament had been destroyed , Tudor historians confused Talbot with Edward 's long-standing mistress Elizabeth Lucy ( also known as Elizabeth Wayte ) .
Lady Eleanor Talbot suggests that the story may have originated with discussions between Edward 's father Richard , Duke of York and Elizabeth 's father John Talbot , 1st Earl of Shrewsbury of a possible marriage , while both men were serving in France .
As such the illegitimacy could not be overcome by the death of Eleanor before the birth of Elizabeth 's sons , even if Edward and Elizabeth married ` again ' after Eleanor 's death .
It is an official declaration that describes why the Parliament had found , the year before , that the marriage of Edward IV of England to Elizabeth Woodville had been invalid , and consequently their children , Edward , Richard and Elizabeth were illegitimate and , therefore , debarred from the throne .
Since Richard 's brother George , Duke of Clarence , had been executed and attainted , his descendants forfeited all rights to the throne , leaving Richard the true heir .
For good measure , the document also hints that George and Edward were themselves illegitimate , while Richard , `` born within this land '' was the `` undoubted son and heir of Richard , late Duke of York '' .
Average winter temperatures are 7 to 10 ° C and summer temperatures of 23 to 24 ° C , which make for a pleasant stay even in the dead of winter .
The great Roman roads ( Aurelia and Julia Augusta on the coast , Postumia and Aemilia Scauri towards the inland ) helped strengthen the territorial unity and increase exchanges and trade .
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth through the establishment of trade routes and colonies , Genoese explorer Cristopher Columbus 's speculative proposal to reach the East Indies by sailing westward received the support of the Spanish crown , which saw in it a promise , however remote , of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia .
Right because of this influence , the Ligurian territory was traversed by the Piedmontese and Austrian armies when these two states came into conflict with Versailles .
Italian patriot and general Giuseppe Garibaldi , who was born in the neighbouring Nice ( then part of Sardinian state ) , started his Expedition of the Thousand on the evening of 5 May 1860 from a rock in Quarto , a quarter of Genoa .
In late 19th and early 20th century , Liguria economic growth was remarkable : steel mills and ship yards flourished along the coast from Imperia to La Spezia , while the port of Genoa became the main commercial hub of industrializing Northern Italy .
During the tragic period of World War II Liguria experienced heavy bombings , hunger and two years of occupation by the German troops , against whom a liberation struggle was led among the most effective in Italy .
The Spanish traveller Pedro Tafur , noting Liguria from sea in 1436 , remarked `` To one who does not know Liguria , the whole coast from Savona to Genoa looks like one continuous city , so well inhabited is it , and so thickly studded with houses , '' and today over 80 % of the regional population still lives permanently near to the coast , where all the four major cities above 50,000 are located : Genoa ( pop .
Ligurian agriculture has increased Liguria specialisation pattern in high-quality products ( flowers , wine , olive oil ) and has thus managed to maintain the gross value-added per worker at a level much higher than the national average ( the difference was about 42 % in 1999 ) .
The politics of Liguria takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democracy , whereby the President of Regional Government is the head of government , and of a pluriform multi-party system .
That year , Marija Gimbutas parents separated and Marija Gimbutas lived with Marija Gimbutas mother and brother , Vytautas , in Kaunas .
In 1946 , Gimbutas received a doctorate in archaeology , with minors in ethnology and history of religion , from Tübingen University with Marija Gimbutas dissertation `` Prehistoric Burial Rites in Lithuania '' ( in German ) , which was published later that year .
This hypothesis , and the act of bridging the disciplines , has had a significant impact on Indo-European studies .
Gimbutas did identify the diverse and complex Paleolithic and Neolithic female representations Marija Gimbutas recognized as depicting a single universal Great Goddess , but also as manifesting a range of female deities : snake goddess , bee goddess , bird goddess , mountain goddess , Mistress of the Animals , etc. , which were not necessarily ubiquitous throughout Europe .
Joseph Campbell and Ashley Montagu each compared the importance of Marija Gimbutas ' output to the historical importance of the Rosetta Stone in deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphs .
... Marija Gimbutas amasses all the data and then leaps from it to conclusions without any intervening argument '' .
Ucko , for example , notes that early Egyptian figurines of women holding their breasts had been taken as ` obviously ' significant of maternity or fertility , but the Pyramid Texts revealed that in Egypt this was the female sign of grief .
Marija Gimbutas is the differences between the Old European system , which she considered goddess - and woman-centered ( gynocentric ) , and the Bronze Age Indo-European patriarchal ( `` androcratic '' ) culture which supplanted it .
Brattleboro , like Marlboro College , is liberal in Marlboro College social life and politics .
The school ( as in the students , faculty and staff ) is also actively building a new Greenhouse on the school farm , ( Marlboro Victory Garden ) which was designed by a recent graduate .
`` Plan '' is a large self-designed project often involving a special and individualized combination of majors and minors .
Loren Pope , original author of the Colleges that Change Lives college guide and former education editor for The New York Times , writes about Marlboro , saying , `` You will find the Marlboro adventure far more intense and intellectually demanding than Harvard , any other Ivy , or Ivy clone .
Though few organized sports teams exist , Marlboro College `` Outdoor Program '' promotes activities such as rock climbing , snowshoeing , cross-country skiing , white-water kayaking , caving , canoeing , hiking , and the annual February broomball tournament .
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp II ( born June 9 , 1963 ) is an American actor , Johnny Depp , and musician .
Films featuring Johnny Depp have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the United States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide .
Makes sense in terms of coming from Kentucky , which is rife with Cherokee and Creek '' .
Depp and Johnny Depp co-stars , Peter DeLuise and Holly Robinson , briefly reprised their roles in cameo appearances in the series ' 2012 feature film adaptation , which featured a much more comedic tone than the series .
This part gave Johnny Depp a `` chance to stretch out and have some fun '' ; Johnny Depp said working with Landau `` rejuvenated Johnny Depp love for acting '' .
In the DVD Reviews section , Entertainment Weeklys Chris Nashawaty gave the film an A minus , stating , `` Depp 's soaring voice makes you wonder what other tricks Johnny Depp 's been hiding ... Watching Depp 's barber wield Johnny Depp razors ... it 's hard not to be reminded of Edward Scissorhands frantically shaping hedges into animal topiaries 18 years ago ... and all of the twisted beauty we would 've missed out on had Burton and Depp never met '' .
Depp is the founder and CEO , while Johnny Depp sister , Christi Dembrowski , serves as president .
Johnny Depp has appeared in Tom Petty & The Heartbreakers ' music video `` Into the Great Wide Open '' and The Lemonheads `` It 's a Shame About Ray '' music video .
Johnny Depp performed lead guitar and drums for a cover of Carly Simon 's `` You 're So Vain '' , which appeared as a bonus track on some editions of Marilyn Manson 's 2012 album Born Villain.
Johnny Depp traded licks with Joe Perry on `` The Brooklyn Shuffle , '' a song from Steve Hunter and `` The Manhattan Blues Project , '' which was scheduled for release on April 30 , 2013 .
Johnny Depp has two children with Paradis : daughter Lily-Rose Melody Depp ( born 1999 ) , and son John `` Jack '' Christopher Johnny Depp III ( born 2002 ) .
They include a Native American in profile and a ribbon reading `` Wino Forever '' ( originally `` Winona Forever '' , altered after Johnny Depp breakup with Winona Ryder ) on Johnny Depp right biceps , `` Lily-Rose '' ( Johnny Depp daughter 's name ) over Johnny Depp heart , `` Betty Sue '' ( Johnny Depp mother 's name ) on Johnny Depp left biceps , and a sparrow flying over water with the word `` Jack '' ( Johnny Depp son 's name ; the sparrow is flying towards Johnny Depp rather than away from him as it is in Pirates of the Caribbean ) on Johnny Depp right forearm .
In 2003 , Johnny Depp told Germany 's Stern magazine , `` America is dumb , is something like a dumb puppy that has big teeth -- that can bite and hurt you , aggressive '' .
Although Johnny Depp later asserted that the magazine misquoted Johnny Depp and the quotation was taken out of context , Stern stood by its story , as did CNN.com in its coverage of the interview .
Some have wondered why Johnny Depp has not verified Johnny Depp Native American ancestry with the Cherokee or any tribe when the information is easily available .
Johnny Depp comment that if you 're Native American , `` you have to think , somewhere along the line , Johnny Depp 'm the product of some horrific rape '' was believed by many Indians to be ignorant and insensitive .
Jihad , Butlerian : ( see also Great Revolt ) -- the crusade against computers , thinking machines , and conscious robots begun in 201 B.G. and concluded in 108 B.G. Its chief commandment remains in the O.C. Bible as `` Thou shalt not make a machine in the likeness of a human mind '' .
The chief commandment from the Orange Catholic Bible , `` Thou shalt not make a machine in the likeness of a human mind '' , holds sway , as do the anti-artificial intelligence laws in which the penalty for owning an AI device or developing technology resembling the human mind is immediate death .
This leads to the rise of a new feudalistic galactic empire which lasts for over ten thousand years , until the rise of the God Emperor Leto II in 10,217 A.G. To replace the analytical powers of computers without violating the commandment of the O.C. Bible , `` human computers '' known as Mentats are developed and perfected , their mental abilities ultimately honed to the point where they become superior to those of the ancient thinking machines .
At the mention of the Goddess , Demlen exploded in a fit of acid and honest outrage , and in his fury , after suggesting that there was more worth reverence in one of his machines than in the worship of ' a supposed `` goddess '' invented by a clutch of bucolic bumpkins on a pigsty of a planet , ' Demlen turned to the icon of Kubebe as if to spit on it .
The series explains that mankind had become entirely complacent and dependent upon thinking machines ; recognizing this weakness , a group of ambitious , militant humans calling themselves the Titans use this widespread reliance on machine intelligence to seize control of the entire universe .
Butlerian Jihad later convert a number of subservient humans into an army of `` neo-cymeks '' to enforce their rule over the universe , and this so-called `` Time of Titans '' lasts for a century .
Roch Carrier , OC ( born 13 May 1937 ) is a Canadian novelist and author of `` contes '' ( a very brief form of Roch Carrier ) .
Carme (moon) gives Carme (moon) name to the Carme group , made up of irregular retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23 and 24 Gm and at an inclination of about 165 ° .
Carme (moon) are continuously changing due to solar and planetary perturbations .
These codes were used by the U.S. Census Bureau , the Department of Agriculture to form milk-processing plant numbers , some cash registers during check approval , and in the Emergency Alert System ( EAS ) .
The list , which was presented to the Palestinian Authority 's central elections committee on that day , included Mohammed Dahlan , Kadoura Fares , Samir Mashharawi and Jibril Rajoub .
The Amazon Standard Identification Number ( ASIN ) is a 10-character alphanumeric unique identifier assigned by Amazon.com and Amazon Standard Identification Number partners for product identification within the Amazon.com
In general , ASINs are likely to be different between the country sites unless Amazon Standard Identification Number are for a class of product where the ASIN is based on an externally-defined and internationally consistent identifier , such as ISBN for books .
Also , ISBNs can vary between countries for the same book if a separate print run or edition was published for the country .
Some ( Kidson , 1986 ; Woo , 1991 ) have suggested that the damage to Lincoln Cathedral was probably exaggerated by poor build quality or design ; with the actual collapse most probably caused by a vault collapse .
`` For north represents the devil , and south the Holy Spirit and Lincoln Cathedral is in these directions that the two eyes look .
Between 1307 and 1311 the central tower was raised to Lincoln Cathedral present height of 83 m ( 271 feet ) .
Other additions to the cathedral at this time included Lincoln Cathedral elaborate carved screen and the 14th century misericords , as was the Angel choir .
The bishop of Lincoln , Hugh of Wells , was one of the signatories to the Magna Carta and for hundreds of years Lincoln Cathedral held one of the four remaining copies of the original , now securely displayed in Lincoln Castle .
On the north side of the cathedral there is the `` Dean 's Eye '' which survives from the original structure of the building and on the south side there is the `` Bishop 's Eye '' which was most likely rebuilt circa 1325-1350 .
This form was often done within pointed arches and squared windows because those are the easiest shapes , so the circular space of the window was a unique challenge to the designers .
The North West Chapel has quadripartite vaults and the South Chapel has vaults that stem from one central support columns .
Between 2006 and 2009 , 200,000 to 208,000 people visited Lincoln Cathedral annually .
The Organist Laureate is Colin Walsh , previously Organist and Master of the Choristers , and the Assistant Organist is Claire Innes-Hopkins .
On 9 June 2007 , in a failed assault on an IDF position at the Kissufim crossing between Gaza and Israel in a possible attempt to kidnap IDF soldiers , 4 armed members of the al-Quds Brigades - the military wing of Islamic Jihad - and the Al-Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigades - the military wing of Fatah - , used a vehicle marked with `` TV '' and `` PRESS '' insignias penetrated the border fence and assaulted a guard tower in what Islamic Jihad and the army said was a failed attempt to capture an Israeli soldier .
On 14 July 2007 , Zakaria Zubeidi , considered the local Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades leader for Jenin and the northern West Bank and has been wanted for many years for his terrorist activity against Israel , agreed to cease fighting against Israel after Prime Minister Ehud Olmert gave conditional pardon for 178 terrorists in the PA territories .
Notable members of the al-Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigade ( ordered lexicographically according to the last name ) includes active militants and militants that were killed or arrested by the Israeli security forces .
Earl Warren ( March 19 , 1891 -- July 9 , 1974 ) was an American jurist and politician who served as the 14th Chief Justice of the United States ( 1953 -- 1969 ) and the 30th Governor of California .
Earl Warren served as a clerk of the Judicial Committee for the 1919 Session of the California State Assembly ( 1919 -- 1920 ) , and as the deputy city attorney of Oakland ( 1920 -- 25 ) .
As governor , Earl Warren modernized the office of governor , and state government generally .
Fearing another postwar decline that would rival the depression years , Governor Earl Warren initiated public works projects similar to those of the New Deal to capitalize on wartime tax surpluses and provide jobs for returning veterans .
Despite Earl Warren lack of judicial experience , Earl Warren years in the Alameda County district attorney 's office and as state attorney general gave Earl Warren far more knowledge of the law in practice than most other members of the Court had .
All the justices had been appointed by Franklin D. Roosevelt or Truman , and all were committed New Deal liberals .
When Frankfurter retired in 1962 and President John F. Kennedy named labor lawyer Arthur Goldberg to replace Earl Warren , Warren finally had the fifth liberal vote for Earl Warren majority .
William J. Brennan , Jr. , a liberal Democrat appointed by Eisenhower in 1956 , was the intellectual leader of the activist faction that included Black and Douglas .
Finally Earl Warren had eight votes , and the last holdout , Stanley Reed of Kentucky , agreed to join the rest .
The Brown decision was a powerful moral statement clad in a weak constitutional analysis ; Earl Warren was never a legal scholar on a par with Frankfurter or a great advocate of particular doctrines , as was Black .
Earl Warren felt racial segregation was simply wrong , and Brown , whatever its doctrinal defects , remains a landmark decision primarily because of Warren 's interpretation of the equal protection clause to mean that children should not be shunted to a separate world reserved for minorities .
Burger , despite Earl Warren distinguished profile and conservative reputation , was not effective in stopping Brennan 's liberalism , so the `` Warren Court '' remained effective until about 1986 , when William Rehnquist became Chief Justice and took control of the agenda .
Fears of possible Soviet or Cuban foreign involvement in the assassination necessitated the establishment of a bipartisan commission that , in turn , sought to depoliticize Oswald 's role by downplaying Earl Warren Communist affiliations .
`` Although Warren was an important and courageous figure and although Earl Warren inspired passionate devotion among Earl Warren followers ... Earl Warren was a dull man and a dull judge , '' wrote Dennis J. Hutchinson .
In the 1992 Simpsons episode '' '' , Marge frets over Bart 's poor behavior and lack of self-discipline , to the point that she imagines a future adult version of Earl Warren as an overweight , slovenly , male stripper , instead of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court , which she had previously hoped for .
The NCS is based on the six elementary color percepts of human vision -- the psychological primaries -- as described by color opponency -- white , black , red , yellow , green , and blue -- which are difficult to define perceptually in terms of others .
The NCS is represented in 19 countries and is the reference norm for color designation in Sweden ( since 1979 ) , Norway ( since 1984 ) and Spain ( since 1994 ) .
The House of Orange-Nassau ( in Dutch : Huis van Oranje-Nassau , ) , a branch of the European House of House of Orange-Nassau , has played a central role in the politics and government of the Netherlands -- and at times in Europe -- especially since William I of Orange ( also known as `` William the Silent '' and `` Father of the Fatherland '' ) organized the Dutch revolt against Spanish rule , which after the Eighty Years ' War led to an independent Dutch state .
The descendants of Walram became known as the Walram Line , which became Dukes of House of Orange-Nassau , and in 1890 , the Grand Dukes of Luxembourg .
The second person was Engelbert I , who offered his services to the Duke of Burgundy , married in 1403 the Dutch noblewoman Johanna van Polanen and so inherited lands in the Netherlands , with the barony of Breda as the core of the Dutch possessions & the family fortune .
In the early years of the 17th century there arose quarrels between stadtholder and oligarchist regents -- a group of powerful merchants led by Johan van Oldebarnevelt -- because Maurits wanted more powers in the Republic .
As William III died childless in 1702 the principality became a matter of dispute between Prince John William Friso of Nassau-Dietz of the Frisian Nassaus and King Frederick I of Prussia , who both claimed the title Prince of Orange .
In 1868 , he tried to sell Luxembourg to France , which was the source of a quarrel between Prussia and France .
Juliana had the reputation of making the monarchy less `` aloof '' , and under her reign the Monarchy became known as the `` cycling monarchy '' .
The first-born son of Beatrix and her husband , Prince Claus , Crown Prince Willem-Alexander , was born on April 27 , 1967 -- the first male heir to the Dutch throne in almost 100 years .
After a long struggle with neurological illness , Queen Juliana died on March 20 , 2004 , and her husband , Prince Bernhard , died on December 1 of that same year .
A distinction is made in the Netherlands between the royal family and the Royal House .
William then added the shield of Veere and Buren to his arms as shown in the arms of Frederick Henry , William II and William III with the arms of the marquisate in the top center , and the arms of the county of Buren in the bottom center .
The house of Orange-Nassau also had many younger branches in the 16th , 17th and 18th centuries descended from William the Silent 's younger brother Count John of Nassau-Dillenburg .
When William VI of Orange returned to the Netherlands in 1813 and was proclaimed Sovereign Prince of the Netherlands , he quartered the former Arms of the Dutch Republic ( 1st and 4th quarter ) with the `` Châlon-Orange '' arms ( 2nd and 3rd quarter ) , which had come to symbolize Orange .
In the 19th century , the Dutch Crown prince , who holds the title `` Prince of Orange '' ( `` Prins van Oranje '' ) , and his son , who holds the title `` Hereditary Prince of Orange '' ( `` Erfprins van Oranje '' ) had their own pre-defined arms .
This is usually the royal arms , quartered with the arms of the principality of Orange , and an in escutcheon of their paternal arms .
An image ( from ) is an artifact that depicts or records visual perception , for example a two-dimensional picture , that has a similar appearance to some subject -- usually a physical object or a person , thus providing a depiction of Image .
The commutator of two elements , g and h , of a group G , is the element g , h = g & minus ; 1h & minus ; 1gh .
For instance , in any group second powers behave well If the derived subgroup is central , then The commutator of two elements a and b of a ring or an associative algebra is defined by a , b = ab & minus ; ba .
The date of Segovia construction , which could be carried out at the end of the 1st century or early 2nd century , and Segovia is the roman civil engineering work most important in Spain .
The Alcazar of Segovia , the royal palace located on top of a rock between the rivers Eresma and Clamores , is documented for the first time in 1122 , although it may exist in earlier time .
Other teachers who also paid tribute to his work a few peasants have been both recognized in any street or town square , as is the case for Aniceto Marinas , who dedicated a monument in 1943 his friend and partner Mariano Benlliure .
The most significant of these is the Virgin of the Aqueduct , located in the central niche of the monument has since the Plaza del Azoguejo and Segovia was already in the 16th century , as remember Colmenares in his history of Segovia .
This proved to be an unhappy introduction to music for the young Segovia due to the teacher 's strict methods and Eduardo stopped the lessons .
The Concerto Op. 99 of 1939 was the first guitar concerto of the 20th century and Castelnuovo-Tedesco 's last work in Italy , before Andrés Segovia emigrated to the United States .
Both Segovia and Miguel Llobet ( who taught Segovia several of Andrés Segovia transcriptions of Granados ' piano works ) plucked the strings with a combination of Andrés Segovia fingernails and fingertips , producing a sharper sound than many of Andrés Segovia contemporaries .
Many works of this and similar style were written especially for Andrés Segovia and formed part of Andrés Segovia core repertoire : particularly the guitar works of Federico Moreno Torroba ( 1891 -- 1982 ) , such as the Sonatina , which was first performed by Segovia in Paris in 1925 .
Further , Andrés Segovia left behind a large body of edited works and transcriptions for classical guitar , including several transcriptions of J S Bach , in particular , an extraordinarily demanding classical guitar transcription of the Chaconne from the 2nd Partita for Violin ( BWV 1004 ) .
A month and a half later , Pluto (Disney) appeared as Minnie Mouse 's dog named Rover who comes along with her and Mickey on a picnic .
Disney says Pluto (Disney) have no documents to support or refute the connection .
Pluto (Disney) is generally a cheerful and adventurous dog , although he can be given to sheer panic when confronted with something unknown .
In 1936 Pluto (Disney) got an early title feature in a picture book under title `` Mickey Mouse and Pluto the Pup '' by Whitman Publishing .
Pluto (Disney) has also appeared in the television series Mickey Mouse Works ( 1999 -- 2000 ) , Disney 's House of Mouse ( 2001 -- 2003 ) and Mickey Mouse Clubhouse ( 2006 -- present ) .
Curiously enough , however , Pluto (Disney) was the only standard Disney character not included when the whole gang was reunited for the 1983 featurette Mickey 's Christmas Carol , although he did return in The Prince and the Pauper ( 1990 ) and Runaway Brain ( 1995 ) .
Pluto (Disney) is not a complete filmography for Pluto as he has also appeared extensively in Mickey Mouse or Donald Duck films .
Pluto (Disney) is a cheerful and adventurous dog .
Pluto (Disney) is the only standard Disney character not included when the whole gang was reunited for the 1983 featurette Mickey 's Christmas Carol , although he did return in The Prince and the Pauper ( 1990 ) and Runaway Brain ( 1995 ) .
Bell pepper pepper , also known as sweet pepper or a pepper ( in the United Kingdom and Ireland ) and capsicum ( in India , Australia and New Zealand ) , is a cultivar group of the species Capsicum annuum .
At that time peppercorns , the fruit of an unrelated plant originating from India , Piper nigrum , was a highly prized condiment ; the name `` pepper '' was at that time applied in Europe to all known spices with a hot and pungent taste and so naturally extended to the newly discovered Capsicum genus .
The lack of capsaicin in bell peppers is due to a recessive form of a gene that eliminates capsaicin and , consequently , the `` hot '' taste usually associated with the rest of the Capsicum genus .
In British English , the fruit is simply referred to as a `` pepper '' , or additionally by color ( as in the term Bell pepper , for example ) , whereas in many Commonwealth of Nations countries , such as India , Canada , and Malaysia , they are called `` bell peppers '' .
In some countries in Europe , the term `` paprika '' , which has Bell pepper roots in the word for pepper , is used -- sometimes referred to by their color ( e.g. , `` groene paprika '' , `` gele paprika '' , in Dutch , which are green and yellow , respectively ) .
Between five and six million people use Tok Pisin to some degree , although by no means do all of these speak it well .
Tok Pisin , like many pidgins and creoles , has a far simpler phonology than the superstrate language .
Derek Bickerton 's analysis of creoles , on the other hand , claims that the syntax of creoles is imposed on the grammarless pidgin by Tok Pisin first native speakers : the children who grow up exposed to only a pidgin rather than a more developed language such as one of the local languages or English .
North American trail marks are sometimes called `` ducks '' or `` duckies '' , because Cairn sometimes have a `` beak '' pointing in the direction of the route .
The expression `` two rocks do not make a duck '' reminds hikers that just one rock resting upon another could be the result of accident or nature rather than intentional trail marking .
Coastal cairns , or `` sea marks '' , are also common in the northern latitudes , especially in the island-strewn waters of Scandinavia and eastern Canada .
Cairns have also been suggested as a three dimesional symbol of atheism , both because cairns have been around since long before the start of the monotheisms , and because a three stone carin replicates the outline of an atheist A. Cairns ( taalo ) are a common feature at Elaayo , Haylaan , Qa’ableh and Qombo'ul , among other places .
Northern Somalia in general is home to a lot of such historical settlements and archaeological sites wherein are found numerous ancient ruins and buildings , many of obscure origins .
Throughout what today are the continental United States and Canada , Cairn still mark indigenous peoples ' game-driving `` lanes '' leading to buffalo jumps , some of which may date to 12,000 years ago .
Natives of arctic North America ( i.e. northern Canada , Alaska and indigenous Greenland ) have built carefully constructed cairns and stone sculptures , called by names such as , as landmarks and directional markers since before contact with Europeans .
In Italy , especially the Italian Alps , Cairn is an , or a `` small man '' .
Cairn is an , or a `` small man '' .
These settlers ( many of whom intended to stay only temporarily ) were generally confined to the German Quarter in Moscow ( which also included Dutch , British and other western or northern European settlers whom the Russians came to indiscriminately refer to as `` Germans '' ) .
Also in other areas with a German minority people of other than German descent assimilated into the German culture and formed then a part of the minority .
Tensions between the new administration and the ethnic German minority arose in the Polish Corridor .
The Austrian Germans also found themselves not allowed to join Germany as German Austria was strictly forbidden to join Germany as well as the name `` German Austria '' was forbidden so the name was changed back to just `` Austria '' and the First Austrian Republic was created in 1919 .
Prior to World War II , more than 10 million ethnic Germans lived in Central and Eastern Europe .
Flüchtlinge depicted the sufferings of Volga German refugees in Manchuria , and how a heroic blond leader saved them ; it was the first movie to win the state prize .
Before and during World War II , some members of Volksdeutsche , in countries such as Czechoslovakia , Poland and Yugoslavia , identifying as Volksdeutsche actively supported the Nazis .
About 300,000 ethnic Germans from the Nazi-conquered lands and the satellite countries categorised as Volksdeutsche joined the Waffen-SS , the majority conscripted involuntarily .
Therefore , in August 1941 , the SS discarded the voluntary approach , and after a favourable judgement from the SS court in Belgrade , imposed a mandatory military obligation on all Volksdeutsche in Serbia-Banat , the first of its kind for non-Reich Germans '' .
The parties discussed total compensation of between 200 million and 350 million Reichsmarks for Volksdeutsche , while the Soviets requested 50 million Reichsmarks for their property claims in German-occupied territories .
The agreement formally defined the border between Germany and the Soviet Union areas between the Igorka River and the Baltic Sea. after the Russian Revolution of 1917 , the government granted the Volga Germans an autonomous republic .
Most of Soviet Germans in the USSR were deported to Siberia , Kazakhstan , and Central Asia by Decree of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR of August 28 , 1941 , and from the beginning of 1942 those Soviet Germans who were deemed suitable for hard work ( men aged from 15 to 55 and women from 16 to 45 ) were mobilised for forced labour into Working columns where they lived in a prison-like environment , and sometimes , together with regular inmates , were put in prison camps .
The western powers hoped to avoid ethnic Germans being an issue again in Central and Eastern Europe .
Local authorities forced most of the remaining ethnic Germans to leave between 1945 and 1950 .
Jack Johnson (boxer) was born in Galveston , Texas , Jack Johnson (boxer) and first son of Henry and Tina `` Tiny '' Johnson , former slaves who worked at blue-collar jobs to raise six children and taught them how to read and write .
In Jack Johnson (boxer) third pro fight on May 8 , 1899 , Jack Johnson (boxer) battled `` Klondike '' ( John W. Haynes or Haines ) , an African American heavyweight known as `` The Black Hercules '' , in Chicago .
Choynski , a popular and experienced heavyweight , knocked out Johnson in the third round .
Jack Johnson (boxer) beat Langford on points in a 15-rounder and never gave Jack Johnson (boxer) another shot at the title , either when Jack Johnson (boxer) was colored champ or the world heavyweight champ .
Jack Johnson fought Joe Jeanette a total of seven times , all during Jack Johnson (boxer) reign as colored champ before Jack Johnson (boxer) became the world 's heavyweight champion , winning four times and drawing twice ( three of the victories and one draw were newspaper decisions ) .
Johnson 's victory over the reigning world champion , Canadian Tommy Burns , in Sydney , Australia , came after stalking Burns around the world for two years and taunting Jack Johnson (boxer) in the press for a match .
In 1909 , Jack Johnson (boxer) beat Frank Moran , Tony Ross , Al Kaufman , and the middleweight champion Stanley Ketchel .
Quickly regaining Jack Johnson (boxer) feet , and very annoyed , Johnson immediately dashed straight at Ketchell and threw a single punch , an uppercut , a punch for which Jack Johnson (boxer) was famous , to Ketchel 's jaw , knocking Jack Johnson (boxer) out .
When Willus unexpectedly died , Jack Johnson (boxer) inherited the gold watch and chain , in a collection of Jack Johnson (boxer) personal belongings , which shortly disappeared , and Jack Johnson (boxer) never recovered it .
Johnson later remarked Jack Johnson (boxer) knew the fight was over in the 4th round when Jack Johnson (boxer) landed an uppercut and saw the look on Jeffries face , stating `` Jack Johnson (boxer) knew what that look meant .
John L. Sullivan commented after the fight that never had there been a championship contest that was so one-sided and that Jack Johnson (boxer) `` played fairly at all times and fought fairly '' .
The outcome of the fight triggered race riots that evening -- the Fourth of July -- all across the United States , from Texas and Colorado to New York and Washington , D.C. Johnson 's victory over Jeffries had dashed white dreams of finding a `` great white hope '' to defeat Jack Johnson (boxer) .
About eight blacks and five whites died in the riots , and hundreds more were injured .
Two weeks after the match former President Theodore Roosevelt , an avid boxer and fan , wrote an article for The Outlook in which Jack Johnson (boxer) supported banning not just moving pictures of boxing matches , but a complete ban on all prize fights in America .
`` Jack Johnson (boxer) , the heavyweight champion , and Battling Jim Johnson , another colored pugilist , of Galveston , Texas , met in a 10-round contest here tonight , which ended in a draw .
After the fight , Jack Johnson (boxer) explained that Jack Johnson (boxer) left arm was injured in the third round and Jack Johnson (boxer) could not use it .
Two of their fights were draws and their last fight on 20 August 1918 , Battling Jim 's penultimate pro fight , was a no decision .
Of the other former and future colored heavyweight champs that Battling Jim battled , Jack Johnson (boxer) won only one fight , against Harry Wills , because Jack Johnson (boxer) broke Jack Johnson (boxer) wrist blocking a punch in a non-title match and Johnson won by a TKO .
Battling Jim lost Jack Johnson (boxer) other two fights with Wills , and Jack Johnson (boxer) lost all of the five fights Jack Johnson (boxer) had with ex-champ Sam McVey in the post-Jack Johnson title shot period .
Battling Jim , who died during the Spanish influenza epidemic of 1918 , ended with a career record of 30 wins against 31 losses and six draws when Jack Johnson (boxer) newspaper decisions are factored in .
Jack Johnson (boxer) was an early example of the celebrity athlete in the modern era , appearing regularly in the press and later on radio and in motion pictures .
Johnson was also interested in opera ( Jack Johnson (boxer) favorite being Il Trovatore ) and in history -- Jack Johnson (boxer) was an admirer of Napoleon Bonaparte , believing Jack Johnson (boxer) to have risen from a similar origin to Jack Johnson (boxer) own .
Asked the secret of Jack Johnson (boxer) staying power by a reporter who had watched a succession of women parade into , and out of , the champion 's hotel room , Johnson supposedly said `` Eat jellied eels and think distant thoughts '' .
There was n't anybody or anything Jack Johnson (boxer) feared '' .
Jack Johnson (boxer) also indulged in what was known as `` cellar '' fighting , where the bouts , unadvertised , were fought for private audiences , usually in cellars , or other unrecognized places .
Ali identified with Johnson because Jack Johnson (boxer) felt America ostracized Jack Johnson (boxer) in the same manner because of Jack Johnson (boxer) opposition to the Vietnam War and affiliation with the Nation of Islam .
Folksinger and blues musician Lead Belly references Johnson in a song about the Titanic : `` Jack Johnson wan na get on board , Captain said Jack Johnson (boxer) ai n't hauling no coal .
Miles Davis and Wynton Marsalis both have done soundtracks for documentaries about Jack Johnson (boxer) .
Several hip-hop activists have also reflected on Johnson 's legacy , most notably in the album The New Danger , by Mos Def , in which songs like `` Zimzallabim '' and `` Blue Black Jack '' are devoted to Jack Johnson (boxer) pugilistic hero .
Russell 's piece is both a tribute and a biting indictment of the racism Johnson faced : `` here comes Jack Johnson , like Jack Johnson (boxer) owns the town , there 's a lot of white Americans like to see a man go down ... like to see a black man drown '' .
Johnson was referenced in the film and Jack Johnson (boxer) is mentioned in the 1940 book Native Son by author Richard Wright .
Wal-Mart created a controversy in 2006 when DVD shoppers were directed from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and Planet of the Apes to the `` similar item '' .
In Jack Johnson (boxer) letters home to Jack Johnson (boxer) wife , Rupert Edward Inglis ( 1863 -- 1916 ) , who was a former rugby international and now a Forces Chaplain , describes passing through the town of Albert : We went through the place today ( 2 October 1915 ) where the Virgin Statue at the top of the Church was hit by a shell in January .
In 2011 , Jack Johnson (boxer) was featured on EA Sports Fight Night Champion as downloadable content on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 .
Jack Johnson (boxer) was part of the `` Legends Pack '' with Jack Dempsey , Floyd Patterson , Joe Louis , and Rocky Marciano .
Jack Johnson (boxer) is colored champ or the world heavyweight champ .
When the latter was reorganized and acquired the status of a university in 1890 , the technical faculty changed École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne name to École d'ingénieurs de l'Université de Lausanne .
About 6000 of these were students , with the remainder consisting of professors , assistants and even entrepreneurs located in the Parc Scientifique of EPFL .
According to a study conducted by Times Higher Education ( THE ) based on the publication and citation data provided by Thomson Reuters , EPFL is ranked Nr .1 in Europe in the field of Engineering ( November , 2010 ) .
Many died , including 60,000 of the 130,000 relocated Cherokee , intermarried and accompanying European-Americans , and the 2,000 African-American free blacks and slaves owned by the Cherokee they took with them .
In 1831 , the Cherokee , Chickasaw , Choctaw , Muscogee Creek , and Seminole ( sometimes collectively referred to as the Five Civilized Tribes ) were living as autonomous nations in what would be called the American Deep South .
The process of cultural transformation ( proposed by George Washington and Henry Knox ) was gaining momentum , especially among the Cherokee and Choctaw .
The fixed boundaries of these autonomous tribal nations , comprising large areas of the United States , were subject to continual cession and annexation prior to 1830 , in part due to pressure from squatters and the threat of military force in the newly declared U.S. territories -- federally administered regions whose boundaries supervened upon the Native treaty claims .
The establishment of the Indian Territory and the dissolution of Indian territories east of the Mississippi anticipated the establishment of the U.S. Indian reservation system , which was subsequently imposed on remaining Indian lands .
Compounding this was the fact that while citizenship tests existed for Native Americans living in newly annexed areas before and after forced relocation , individual U.S. states did not recognize tribal land claims , only individual title under State law , and distinguished between the rights of white and non-white citizens , who often had limited standing in court ; and Indian removal was carried out under U.S. military jurisdiction , often by state militias .
The military actions and subsequent treaties enacted by the Jackson and Van Buren administrations pursuant to the 1830 law are widely considered to have directly caused the expulsion or death of a substantial part of the Native Americans then living in the southeastern United States .
Nevertheless , on February 12 , 1825 , McIntosh and other chiefs signed the Treaty of Indian Springs , which gave up most of the remaining Creek lands in Georgia .
At first , President Adams attempted to intervene with federal troops , but Troup called out the militia , and Adams , fearful of a civil war , conceded .
Tensions between Georgia and the Cherokee Nation were brought to a crisis by the discovery of gold near Dahlonega , Georgia , in 1829 , resulting in the Georgia Gold Rush , the second gold rush in U.S. history .
Nevertheless , the treaty , passed by Congress by a single vote , and signed into law by President Andrew Jackson , was imposed by his successor President Martin Van Buren who allowed Georgia , Tennessee , North Carolina , and Alabama an armed force of 7,000 made up of militia , regular army , and volunteers under General Winfield Scott to round up about 13,000 Cherokees into concentration camps at the U.S. Indian Agency near Cleveland , Tennessee before being sent to the West .
Private John G. Burnett later wrote , `` Future generations will read and condemn the act and I do hope posterity will remember that private soldiers like myself , and like the four Cherokees who were forced by General Scott to shoot an Indian Chief and his children , had to execute the orders of our superiors .
They were not allowed passage until the ferry had serviced all others wishing to cross and were forced to take shelter under `` Mantle Rock , '' a shelter bluff on the Kentucky side , until `` Berry had nothing better to do '' .
Added to this were some 200 Cherokee from the Nantahala area allowed to stay in the Qualla Boundary after assisting the U.S. Army in hunting down and capturing the family of the old prophet , Tsali .
A historical drama based on the Trail of Tears , Unto These Hills , has sold over five million tickets for Trail of Tears performances since 1950 , both touring and at the outdoor Mountainside Theater of the Cherokee Historical Association in Cherokee , North Carolina .
This was at the point when the remaining Cherokee were rounded into camps and pressed into oversized detachments , often over 700 in size ( larger than the populations of Little Rock or Memphis at that time ) .
Hellraiser ( also known as Clive Barker 's Hellraiser ) is a 1987 British horror film written and directed by Clive Barker , based upon his own novella The Hellbound Heart .
Hellraiser leader Pinhead ( Doug Bradley ) , picks up the box and twists it back into Hellraiser original state , taking Frank 's dissected physical remnants back to Hellraiser realm with them and restoring the room to normal .
The pair know Frank as an avowed hedonist and petty criminal , and , presuming that he is in jail in some exotic location , decide to move in .
Coil 's score , which was apparently described by Barker in a complimentary manner as being `` bowel churning '' , has been released in isolation as The Unreleased Themes for Hellraiser and as part of the compilation Unnatural History II ( CD ) ( 1995 ) .
Milton James Rhode Acorn ( March 30 , 1923 -- August 20 , 1986 ) , nicknamed The People 's Poet by Milton Acorn peers , was a Canadian poet , writer , and playwright .
Chatsworth House , set in expansive parkland and backed by wooded , rocky hills rising to heather moorland , contains a unique collection of priceless paintings , furniture , Old Master drawings , neoclassical sculptures , books and other artefacts .
The main block was re-built by the 1st Duke between 1687 and 1707 , on the site of Bess of Hardwick 's original Tudor mansion .
In the reign of Edward the Confessor a man of Norse origin named ` Chetel ' held lands jointly with a Saxon named ` Leotnoth ' in three townships ; Ednesoure to the west of the Derwent , and Langoleie and Chetesuorde to the east .
Chetel was deposed after the Norman Conquest and in the Domesday Book the Manor of Chetesuorde is listed as the property of the Crown in the custody of William de Peverel .
The courtyard was larger than Chatsworth House is now , as there were no corridors on the western side and the northern and southern sides only had enclosed galleries on the first floor ( second floor in American English ) with open galleries below .
The 6th Duke ( known as ` the Bachelor Duke ' ) was a passionate traveller , builder , gardener and collector who transformed Chatsworth .
These estates covered of land in England and Ireland .
This demanded more corridors around the edges of the courtyard , so that rooms could be easily reached from indoors , and more shared living rooms to replace individual guest apartments .
Changes to the main baroque interiors were restricted to details such as stamped leather hangings on the walls of the State Music Room and State Bedroom , and a wider and shallower , but less elegant staircase in the Painted Hall , which was itself later replaced .
The number of garden staff was somewhere between the eighty of the 6th Duke 's time and the twenty or so of the early 21st century .
The contents of Chatsworth House were packed away in eleven days and , in September 1939 , 300 girls and their teachers moved in for a six-year stay .
He was married to Deborah Mitford , one of the Mitford girls and sister to Nancy Mitford , Diana Mitford , Pamela Mitford , Unity Mitford and Jessica Mitford The 1st and 6th Dukes both inherited an old house and tried to adapt to the lifestyle of their time without changing the fundamentals of its layout , making the Chatsworth 's layout unique and full of irregularities and the interiors are a collection of different styles .
Chatsworth Country House Parties The early 19th century saw a rise in popularity of the ` English Country House Party ' and so in 1830 the Duke converted rooms on the east side of Chatsworth House into guest bedrooms .
There is much eastern influence in the decoration including hand-painted Chinese wallpapers and fabrics which are typical of Regency Taste , which developed during the reign of George IV ( 1762 -- 1830 ) .
His architect , Sir Jeffry Wyatville ( 1766 -- 1840 ) designed the new north wing , which now holds the Sculpture Gallery and the old Orangery ( now the gift shop ) .
There are more family bedrooms on the second floor facing west and north .
The stables originally had stalls for 80 horses , and all necessary equine facilities including a blacksmiths shop .
In 1987 the Duke and Duchess 's private chef , a Frenchman named Jean-Pierre Béraud who was also a leading light in the success of the Chatsworth Farm Shop and Chatsworth Foods , took charge of the catering .
St Peter 's in Edensor is also where the 6th , 7th , 8th , 9th , 10th and 11th Duke of Devonshire and their wives are buried .
Several thousand acres of the estate , mostly around Chatsworth and on the Staveley estate , are farmed in hand .
The fair includes many things for visitors to watch , including a vintage car show , horse driving , pipe bands , highland dancing , many cooking demonstrations by renowned chefs , and a display by the famous RAF Aerobatic Team , the Red Arrows The fair also has several ` Have a go ' things to do , including clay pigeon shooting , a .22
Griff Rhys Jones was a guest at Chatsworth while making and filming his show `` Rivers with Griff Rhys Jones '' .
Chatsworth House is the main family dining room , and at the top the Great Chamber .
Francisco Vásquez de Coronado y Luján ( 1510 -- 22 September 1554 ) was a Spanish conquistador , who visited New Mexico and other parts of what are now the southwestern United States between 1540 and 1542 .
In Mexico , Francisco Vásquez de Coronado married Beatriz de Estrada , called `` the Saint '' ( la Santa ) , sister of Leonor de Estrada , ancestor of the de Alvarado family and daughter of Treasurer and Governor Alonso de Estrada y Hidalgo , Lord of Picón , and wife Marina Flores Gutiérrez de la Caballería , from a converso Jewish family .
When Marcos de Niza returned , Francisco Vásquez de Coronado told about a city of vast wealth , a golden city called Cíbola , and that Estevan had been killed by the Zuni citizens of Cíbola .
This is the reason Francisco Vásquez de Coronado pawned Francisco Vásquez de Coronado wife 's estates and was lent 70,000 more pesos .
This fits the chronicle of Laus Deo description , which reports that `` at Chichilticalli the country changes its character again and the spiky vegetation ceases .
On-the-ground research by Nugent Brasher beginning in 2005 strongly indicates that Coronado traveled north between Chichiticalli and Zuni primarily on the New Mexico side of the state line , not the Arizona side as has been thought since the 1940s .
Upon arrival , the Spanish were denied entrance to the village they came across , and once again resorted to using force to enter .
After trying and failing to climb down into the Grand Canyon to reach the river below , the expedition reported that they would not be able to use the Colorado River to link up with Alarcon 's supply ships .
There the local natives , probably the CocoMaricopa ( see Seymour 2007b ) , told Francisco Vásquez de Coronado that Alarcón 's sailors had buried supplies and left a note in a bottle .
With the Turk guiding Francisco Vásquez de Coronado , Coronado and Francisco Vásquez de Coronado army crossed the flat and featureless steppe called the Llano Estacado in the Texas Panhandle , passing through the present-day communities of Hereford and Canadian .
The Teyas , like the Querechos , were numerous and buffalo hunters , although they had additional resources .
The Spanish , however , did note the presence of mulberries , roses , grapes , walnuts , and plums .
Francisco Vásquez de Coronado found Quivira `` well settled ... along good river bottoms , although without much water , and good streams which flow into another '' .
Archaeological evidence strongly suggests that Quivira was in central Kansas with the western-most village near the small town of Lyons on Cow Creek , extending twenty miles east to the Little Arkansas River , and north another twenty miles to the town of Lindsborg on a tributary of the Smoky Hill River .
This sounds as if Coronado may have reached the Smoky Hill River near Salina or Abilene .
The people of Harahey seem Caddoan , because `` it was the same sort of a place , with settlements like these , and of about the same size '' as Quivira .
Uncle Tom 's Cabin ; or , Life Among the Lowly is an anti-slavery novel by American author Harriet Beecher Stowe .
The book and the plays Uncle Tom's Cabin inspired helped popularize a number of stereotypes about black people .
Emily Shelby is averse to this idea because she had promised her maid that her child would never be sold ; Emily 's son , George Shelby , hates to see Tom go because he sees the man as his friend and mentor .
When Eliza overhears Mr. and Mrs. Shelby discussing plans to sell Tom and Harry , Eliza determines to run away with her son .
When Tom refuses to tell Uncle Tom's Cabin where Cassy and Emmeline have gone , Uncle Tom's Cabin orders his overseers to kill Tom .
While Stowe weaves other subthemes throughout her text , such as the moral authority of motherhood and the redeeming possibilities offered by Christianity , she emphasizes the connections between these and the horrors of slavery .
Stowe sometimes changed the story 's voice so she could give a `` homily '' on the destructive nature of slavery ( such as when a white woman on the steamboat carrying Tom further south states , `` The most dreadful part of slavery , to my mind , is its outrages of feelings and affections -- the separating of families , for example '' .
Through characters like Eliza , who escapes from slavery to save her young son ( and eventually reunites her entire family ) , or Eva , who is seen as the `` ideal Christian '' , Stowe shows how she believed women could save those around them from even the worst injustices .
Charles Francis Adams , the American minister to Britain during the war , argued later that `` Uncle Tom 's Cabin ; or Life among the Lowly , published in 1852 , exercised , largely from fortuitous circumstances , a more immediate , considerable and dramatic world-influence than any other book ever printed '' .
By 1857 , Uncle Tom's Cabin had been translated into 20 languages , including two independent translations into Slovene just one year after Uncle Tom's Cabin original publication , which started the since-then uninterrupted dialogue between American authors and Slovene translators and readers .
Some scholars have stated that Stowe saw her novel as offering a solution to the moral and political dilemma that troubled many slavery opponents : whether engaging in prohibited behavior was justified in opposing evil .
For Stowe , blood relations rather than paternalistic relations between masters and slaves formed the basis of families .
In this view , abolitionists had begun to resist the vision of aggressive and dominant men that the conquest and colonization of the early 19th century had fostered .
Uncle Tom's Cabin creation and use of common stereotypes about African Americans is significant because Uncle Tom 's Cabin was the best-selling novel in the world during the 19th century .
As a result , the book ( along with illustrations from Uncle Tom's Cabin and associated stage productions ) played a major role in permanently ingraining these stereotypes into the American psyche .
In recent years , however , scholars such as Henry Louis Gates Jr. have begun to re-examine Uncle Tom 's Cabin , stating that Uncle Tom's Cabin is a `` central document in American race relations and a significant moral and political exploration of the character of those relations '' .
Among the most famous anti-Tom books are The Sword and the Distaff by William Gilmore Simms , Aunt Phillis 's Cabin by Mary Henderson Eastman , and The Planter 's Northern Bride by Caroline Lee Hentz , with the last author having been a close personal friend of Stowe 's when the two lived in Cincinnati .
Eric Lott , in his book Uncle Tomitudes : Racial Melodrama and Modes of Production , estimates that at least three million people saw these plays , ten times Uncle Tom's Cabin first-year sales .
Stowe refused to authorize dramatization of her work because of her distrust of drama ( although she did eventually go to see George L. Aiken 's version and , according to Francis Underwood , was `` delighted '' by Caroline Howard 's portrayal of Topsy ) .
Stowe 's refusal to authorize a particular dramatic version left the field clear for any number of adaptations , some launched for ( various ) political reasons and others as simply commercial theatrical ventures .
Uncle Tom's Cabin and plays were translated into several languages ; Stowe received no money , which could have meant as much as `` three fourths of her just and legitimate wages '' .
Many of the productions featured demeaning racial caricatures of Black people , while a number of productions also featured songs by Stephen Foster ( including `` My Old Kentucky Home '' , `` Old Folks at Home '' , and `` Massa 's in the Cold Ground '' ) .
The many stage variants of Uncle Tom 's Cabin `` dominated northern popular culture ... for several years '' during the 19th century , and the plays were still being performed in the early 20th century .
The first film version of Uncle Tom 's Cabin was one of the earliest full-length movies ( although full-length at that time meant between 10 and 14 minutes ) .
This 1903 film , directed by Edwin S. Porter , used white actors in blackface in the major roles and black performers only as extras .
According to The Dramatic Mirror , this film was `` a decided innovation '' in motion pictures and `` the first time an American company '' released a dramatic film in three reels .
Other movies influenced by or making use of Uncle Tom 's Cabin include Dimples ( a 1936 Shirley Temple film ) , Uncle Tom 's Uncle , ( a 1926 Our Gang episode ) , Uncle Tom's Cabin 1932 remake Spanky , the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical The King and I ( in which a ballet called `` Small House of Uncle Thomas '' is performed in traditional Siamese style ) , and Gangs of New York ( in which Leonardo DiCaprio and Daniel Day-Lewis 's characters attend an imagined wartime adaptation of Uncle Tom 's Cabin ) .
The first BlackBerry device , an email pager , was released in 1999 ; the most recent BlackBerry devices , the Z10 and Q10 , were announced on January 30 , 2013 .
The original BlackBerry devices , the RIM 850 and 857 , used the DataTAC network .
Models made to use iDEN networks such as Nextel and Mike also incorporate a push-to-talk ( PTT ) feature , similar to a two-way radio .
Some of the BlackBerry models ( Torch 9850/9860 , Torch 9810 , and Bold 9900/9930 ) have a 1.2 GHz MSM8655 Snapdragon processor , 768 MB system memory , and 8 GB of on-board storage .
A new operating system , BlackBerry 10 , was released for two new BlackBerry models ( Z10 and Q10 ) on January 30 , 2013 .
The messaging system built into BlackBerry only understands how to receive messages from a BES or the BIS , these services handle the connections to the user 's mail providers .
Most providers offer flat monthly pricing via special BlackBerry tariffs for unlimited data between BlackBerry units and BES .
Research In Motion has been attributing data overload due to switch failures in their two data centres in Waterloo in Canada and Slough in England as the cause of the service disruptions .
Paul , Philadelphia , Houston , and Newark , but several have been slated for closing BlackBerry PIN is an eight character hexadecimal identification number assigned to each BlackBerry device .
Emails and any other messages , such as those from the BlackBerry Push Service , are typically directed to a BlackBerry device 's PIN .
In January 2006 the US Supreme Court refused to hear RIM 's appeal of the holding of liability for patent infringement , and the matter was returned to a lower court .
The US Federal Government and Department of Defense are also prominent examples of BlackBerry device users , the latter agency even stating that the BlackBerry smartphone is `` essential for national security '' because of the large number of BlackBerry users in the government .
The procedure for filing Class action is to file suit with one or several named plaintiffs on behalf of a proposed class .
As UCLA law professor Stephen Yeazell has pointed out , the most likely reason is that the abysmally poor transportation , communications , and administrative apparatus of medieval times made it impossible for the English sovereign to directly manage the entire country in terms of individuals ; it was easier to structure society by imposing obligations upon groups which were enforced by the sporadic use of force .
In turn , lawyers and judges who operated the king 's system of justice in a society strictly organized into groups would not question the right of a group to sue or be sued because to do so would bring into question the entire group-oriented society in which Class action operated .
Chancery cases on group litigation after 1700 were a totally incoherent mess , which Yeazell has explained by pointing to the trends towards fragmentation and individualism in English society during that period ; the resulting societal pressures ultimately led to the Reform Act 1832 .
Group litigation has struggled with the tension between consent and interest ever since .
By 1850 , Parliament had enacted several statutes on a case-by-case basis to deal with issues regularly faced by certain types of organizations , like joint-stock companies , and with the impetus for most types of group litigation removed , Class action went into a steep decline in English jurisprudence from which Class action never recovered .
Class action was further weakened by the fact that equity pleading in general was falling into disfavor , which culminated in the Judicature Acts of 1874 and 1875 .
Like most Americans then and since , Story took individualism for granted ; on that basis , he simply could not comprehend a rule that allowed a court to bind someone who had never been a party to litigation purportedly conducted on his behalf .
Second , Class action may overcome `` the problem that small recoveries do not provide the incentive for any individual to bring a solo action prosecuting his or her rights '' .
Refusing to litigate the case in one trial could result in different outcomes and inconsistent standards of conduct for the defendant corporation .
Where both the plaintiffs and the defendants have been organized into court-approved classes , Class action is called a bilateral class action .
140 bis of the Italian consumers ' code and will be in force from 1 July 2009 .
Ultimately , the matter was settled between the Union of India and Union Carbide ( in a settlement overseen by the Supreme Court of India ) for a sum of as a complete settlement of all claims of all victims for all time to come .
An example of this is the Royal Dutch Shell Oil Reserves Settlement that was declared binding upon both US and non-US plaintiffs .
Also any judgment made by the Spanish court will list the individual beneficiaries or , if that is not possible , conditions that need to be fulfilled for a party to benefit from a judgment .
Class action is further weakened by the fact that equity pleading in general was falling into disfavor , which culminated in the Judicature Acts of 1874 and 1875 .
Gainesville , a new town located on the railroad , began to draw business and residents away from Newnansville .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 22,259 people , 7,043 households , and 5,599 families residing in Baker County, Florida .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau , Bay County, Florida has a total area of 2675.9 sqkm , of which 1964.4 sqkm is land and 711.5 sqkm , or 26.59 % , is water .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 148,217 people , 59,597 households , and 40,466 families residing in Bay County, Florida .
Westerwald covers an area of some 50 × 70 km , and thereby roughly 3 000 km ² , making the Westerwald one of Germany 's biggest mountain ranges by area .
Typical for the economy of the Upper Westerwald , some 40 % of which is actually wooded , are traditional slate mining , clay quarrying , diabase and basalt mining , pottery and the iron ore industry , and among other things mining in the Siegerländer Erzrevier ( roughly `` Siegerland Ore Grounds '' ) .
In Westerwald centre lie Bad Marienberg and Hachenburg .
Likewise , the Gladenbach Uplands , lying east of the Dill , also belong to Westerwald , whereas the mountains reaching up to 680 m near the Haiger Saddle ( Haiger Sattel ) and east of Siegen are counted as part of the Rothaargebirge .
To the south , as part of the Lahn valley , the hilly Limburg Basin ( Limburger Becken ) abuts the Upper Westerwald.The High Westerwald is an undulating and basalt-rich tableland decked with woodlands that has a distinctly agreeable climate , and elevations ranging from roughly 450 to 657 m .
Parts of this limestone formation are worked in open-pit mining ; near Enspel , a `` fossil conservation area '' has been instituted , in which institutes from several colleges conduct research and excursions .
However , the Romans only managed to seize a strip of land on the Rhine 's right bank and the so-called Rhine-Westerwald ; the Westerwald itself lay outside the Roman-occupied area , for the Romans preferred to maintain a little-settled , most likely pathless wilderness as their border .
The Westerwald 's permanent settlement and thereby Westerwald territorial history began with the Chatti ( Hessians ) pushing their way into the area after the Romans were driven out in the 3rd century .
From the 4th to the 6th century , the settlements from the time of the taking of the land arose in formerly pathless areas , taking endings such as -- ingen and -- heim , like Bellingen and Bladernheim ; these lie on the broad , raised plains in the Upper Westerwald .
Once clearing settlements had been established and logging for iron ore smelting was under way , the widespread destruction of the forest began .
Between the 6th and 9th centuries came settlement expansion from the old settlements towards the edges , a process still witnessed in placename endings such as -- hausen , -- hofen , -- kirch , -- burg or -- tal .
Moreover , the Counts of Wied , the Counts of Sayn-Wittgenstein and the Electorate of Trier were all prominent landlords .
Westerwald is Betzdorf , the Heller , the Dill and from its mouth near Wetzlar .
Westerwald is Westerwald-Marsch ( `` Westerwald March '' ) , Westerwald , du bist so schön ( `` Westerwald , you are so lovely '' ) , the neues Westerwaldlied ( `` New Westerwald Song '' ) by songwriter Ulrik Remy Ich bin aus 'm Westerwald ( `` I am from the Westerwald '' ) and Das schönste Mädchen vom Westerwald ( `` The Loveliest Girl from the Westerwald '' ) by Karl-Eberhard Hain and Jürgen Hardeck , made well known by `` De Höhner '' , `` Die Schröders '' and other groups .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 26,088 people , 8,497 households , and 6,194 families residing in Bradford County, Florida .
The first Paleoindians arrived in the area near Brevard County, Florida between 12,000 and 10,000 years ago .
At the time , the earth was going through Brevard County, Florida most recent ice age and the climate of the area was much different than Brevard County, Florida is now ; Brevard County, Florida was similar to that of Great Britain today .
During the construction of the Hernandez-Capron Trail , General Joseph Hernández and his militiamen encamped near present-day Mims .
The advent of the automobile age brought even more growth to Brevard County, Florida , as resorts and hotels popped up all around Brevard County, Florida .
As the automobile became increasingly important as a means of transportation , roads connecting Brevard County, Florida to the rest of Florida and ultimately to the rest of the nation were built .
What had once been a primarily low-tech farmer/fisherman economy was transformed into a high-tech engineering and computer economy .
There was talk of secession on the southern end of Brevard County, Florida , and Brevard County, Florida decided to build a new county administration complex at Viera near the geographical center of Brevard County, Florida .
Viera , however , is for all intents and purposes the de facto seat of Brevard County, Florida .
According to the 2000 census , Brevard County, Florida has a total area of , of which ( or 65.40 % ) is land and ( or 34.60 % ) is water , primarily the Atlantic Ocean , the St. Johns River and the Indian River Lagoon .
The United Third Bridge and the Florida Puerto Rican/Hispanic Chamber of Commerce in Melbourne submitted in January 2012 a proposal to name the island after Juan Ponce de León .
The following storms did not affect Brevard County, Florida with hurricane force winds : Floyd ( September 15 , 1999 ) , and Irene ( October 16 , 1999 ) .
Brevard County, Florida grew by 14 % between 2000 and 2010 , to 543,376 people .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 476,230 people and 132,394 families residing in Brevard County, Florida .
Brevard County, Florida lies within Florida 's 24th congressional district , which seat is held by Sandy Adams , and within Florida 's 8th congressional district , which seat is held by Bill Posey .
More than 200 parks , three campgrounds , and six public golf courses in Brevard County, Florida are managed by local government agencies .
Annually , $ 78 million is spent at the Space Center Visitor 's Complex , and $ 5.9 million from space business visitors .
Two locally headquartered builders , Mercedes Homes and Holiday , were among the top 30 in the nation .
Brevard County, Florida had 1,050 restaurants in 2007 and nearly that many ( 1,040 ) in 2010 .
$ 97.7 million has been spent on beach replenishment in the county between 2000 and 2010 .
Cocoa Main Street , a member of the Florida and National Main Street Programs , works toward restoring business sites in Brevard County, Florida .
The Brevard Cultural Alliance ( BCA ) maintains an event calendar and a map of sites of historic , cultural , and ecological interest .
Kennedy Space Center ( KSC ) is the largest employer in the county with 15,000 contractors and civil servants .
While Brevard County has transportation available in the usual modes for a coastal county -- highways , shipping , and airlines -- Brevard County, Florida has the addition of space transportation , making Brevard County, Florida unique in the world .
A small portion of the county along the southern border , including the communities of Micco and Barefoot Bay , share a 772 area code with Indian River County to the south .
The Maxwell C. King Center for the Performing Arts , seating 2000 , features locally produced and former Broadway shows , ballet , and symphony .
The Brevard Symphony Orchestra and the Space Coast Ballet offer shows performed by professionals .
The Observation Gantry near Launch Complex 39 offers a view of the Space Shuttle launch pads ( first built for the Apollo missions ) , the Vehicle Assembly Building , and the crawlerway over which rockets are taken to the pad .
The Brevard Museum of History & Natural Science features the remains of the `` Windover Man '' , the oldest human remains found on the North American continent , and a re-creation of the Windover Dig , a `` wet '' archaeological site .
The Harry T. and Harriette V. Moore Memorial Park and Cultural Center features a museum with artifacts and time line of the civil rights movement and the story of Harry T. and Harriette V. Moore , civil rights leaders who were killed when their home was bombed .
Beginning with Denmark in 1989 , civil unions under one name or another have been established by law in several , mostly developed , countries in order to provide legal recognition of relationships formed by unmarried same-sex couples and to afford them rights , benefits , and responsibilities similar ( in some countries , identical ) to those of legally married couples .
In some jurisdictions of Brazil , New Zealand , Uruguay , Ecuador , France and the U.S. states of Colorado , Hawaii and Illinois , Civil union are also open to opposite-sex couples .
Supporters of same-sex marriage contend that treating same-sex couples differently from other couples under the law allows for inferior treatment and that if Civil union were the same as marriage there would be no reason for two separate laws .
These have still been criticised as being ` separate but equal ' by former New Zealand MP and feminist Marilyn Waring as same-sex couples remain excluded from the right to marry .
Former US Solicitor General and attorney in the Perry v. Schwarzenegger case Theodore Olsen said that recognising same-sex couples under the term ` domestic partnership ' stigmatizes gay people 's relationships treating them as if they were `` something akin to a commercial venture , not a loving union '' .
Tax benefits accrue immediately ( only from 2007 on Between 2000 and 2010 , the number of marriages decreased while the number of PACS strongly increased .
Both same-sex marriages and civil unions of other nations will be automatically considered civil partnerships under UK law providing Civil union came within Section 20 of the Act .
The Scottish Government , which has devolved responsibility for such legislation , held a consultation - concerning both civil and religious same sex marriage - in the autumn of 2011 .
As in Greece the state is still not separated from the church , only religious marriages are officially recognized and a child can be baptised under the strict condition that the parents ' marriage ( who were both baptized as Christian Orthodox ) took place in a church .
On 9 December 2004 the New Zealand Parliament passed the Civil Union Bill , establishing Civil union for same-sex and opposite-sex couples .
A companion bill , the Relationships ( Statutory References ) Bill was passed shortly thereafter to remove discriminatory provisions on the basis of relationship status from a range of statutes and regulations .
By the end of 2006 , Connecticut and New Jersey had also enacted civil union laws ; New Hampshire followed in 2007 .
Jurisdictions in the U.S. States in the U.S. In California , where domestic partnership ( DP ) has been available to same-sex and certain opposite-sex couples since 2000 , a wholesale revision of the law in 2005 made it substantially equivalent to marriage at the state level .
Hawaii legalized Civil union for same-sex and opposite-sex couples on January 1 , 2012 .
Maine legalized domestic partnership for same-sex and opposite-sex couples in 2004 .
In 2006 , however , after a state Supreme Court ruling that same-sex couples must be extended all the rights and benefits of marriage , the Legislature passed a civil unions law , effective in 2007 , which is an attempt to satisfy the court 's ruling .
A Vermont civil union is nearly identical to a legal marriage , as far as the rights and responsibilities for which state law , not federal law , is responsible are concerned .
However , despite the `` full faith and credit '' clause of the United States Constitution , Civil union are generally not recognized outside Vermont in the absence of specific legislation .
This means that many of the advantages of marriage , which fall in the federal jurisdiction ( over 1,100 federal laws , such as joint federal income tax returns , visas and work permits for the foreign partner of a U.S. citizen , etc. ) , are not extended to the partners of a Vermont civil union .
Germany 's international civil law ( EGBGB ) also accords to Vermont civil unions the same benefits and responsibilities that apply in Vermont , as long as they do not exceed the standard accorded by German law to a German civil union .
Contempt of court is a court order which in the context of a court trial or hearing , declares a person or organization to have disobeyed or been disrespectful of Contempt of court authority .
A judge may impose sanctions such as a fine or jail for someone found guilty of Contempt of court .
Criminal offences are found within the Criminal Code of Canada or other federal/provincial laws , with the exception that Contempt of court is the only remaining common law offence in Canada .
The use of insulting or threatening language in the magistrates ' courts or against a magistrate is in breach of HK Laws .
The civil sanction for contempt ( which is typically incarceration in the custody of the sheriff or similar court officer ) is limited in Contempt of court imposition for so long as the disobedience to the court 's order continues : once the party complies with the court 's order , the sanction is lifted .
Contempt of court is a court order which in the context of a court trial or hearing , declares a person or organization to have disobeyed or been disrespectful of the court 's authority .
More black foreigners immigrated to Broward County, Florida between 2001 and 2005 than any other county in the United States .
The Broward County, Florida Charter provides for a separation between the legislative and administrative functions of government .
Deerfield Beach -- another primary eastern municipality -- has Broward County, Florida own street grid , as do two smaller municipalities -- Dania and Hallandale .
Broward County, Florida is the eighteenth most populous county in the United States and one of three counties that comprise the South Florida metropolitan area .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 13,017 people , 4,468 households , and 3,132 families residing in Calhoun County, Florida .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 159,978 people , 73,370 households , and 44,130 families residing in Charlotte County, Florida .
In the 1960s Citrus County, Florida began to develop and housing developments such as Beverly Hills started to dominate Citrus County, Florida .
Ronald Fisher held the view that genetic drift plays at the most a minor role in evolution , and this remained the dominant view for several decades .
Unless the second jar contains exactly 10 red and 10 blue marbles , a random shift occurred in the allele frequencies .
The probability of any one possible combination is where 1/2 ( the probability of the A or B allele for each surviving bacterium ) is multiplied four times ( the total sample size , which in this example is the total number of surviving bacteria ) .
The probability for any one of the possible combinations can be calculated with the formula where N is the number of bacteria and k is the number of A ( or B ) alleles in the combination .
Using the formula to calculate the probability that between them the surviving four bacteria have two A alleles and two B alleles .
When an allele reaches a frequency of 1 ( 100 % ) it is said to be `` fixed '' in the population and when an allele reaches a frequency of 0 ( 0 % ) Genetic drift is lost .
Once an allele becomes fixed , genetic drift comes to a halt , and the allele frequency can not change unless a new allele is introduced in the population via mutation or gene flow .
Assuming genetic drift is the only evolutionary force acting on an allele , after t generations in many replicated populations , starting with allele frequencies of p and q , the variance in allele frequency across those populations is Assuming genetic drift is the only evolutionary force acting on an allele , at any given time the probability that an allele will eventually become fixed in the population is simply Genetic drift frequency in the population at that time .
The effective population ( Ne ) takes into account factors such as the level of inbreeding , the stage of the lifecycle in which Genetic drift is the smallest , and the fact that some neutral genes are genetically linked to others that are under selection .
The expected time for the neutral allele to be lost through genetic drift can be calculated as When a mutation appears only once in a population large enough for the initial frequency to be negligible , the formulas can be simplified to for average number of generations expected before fixation of a neutral mutation , and for the average number of generations expected before the loss of a neutral mutation .
If the allele prone to mutational loss begins as fixed in the population , and is lost by mutation at rate m per replication , then the expected time in generations until Genetic drift loss in a haploid population is given by where is equal to Euler 's constant .
The difference in gene frequencies between the original population and colony may also trigger the two groups to diverge significantly over the course of many generations .
This potential for relatively rapid changes in the colony 's gene frequency led most scientists to consider the founder effect ( and by extension , genetic drift ) a significant driving force in the evolution of new species .
Wright wrote that the `` restriction of `` random drift '' or even `` drift '' to only one component , the effects of accidents of sampling , tends to lead to confusion '' .
He introduced the concept of an adaptive landscape in which phenomena such as cross breeding and genetic drift in small populations could push them away from adaptive peaks , which in turn allow natural selection to push them towards new adaptive peaks .
The role of genetic drift by means of sampling error in evolution has been criticized by John H Gillespie and Will Provine , who argue that selection on linked sites is a more important stochastic force .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 251,377 people , 102,973 households , and 71,257 families residing in Collier County, Florida .
It was also shown in the Showtime series Dexter at Collier County, Florida stop meeting between Dexter and the Trinity Killer .
Influenced by such literary works as Heart of Darkness and Lord of the Flies , The Beach (novel) describes the adventures of a young Englishman in search of a legendary , idyllic beach untouched by tourism .
In 2000 The Beach (novel) was adapted into a film directed by Danny Boyle and starring Leonardo DiCaprio .
Together with a young and beautiful French couple , Étienne and Françoise , the trio sets out to find what The Beach (novel) believe must be paradise on earth .
When the three travellers finally reach the beach - after bribing a local boat contractor , taking a long swim , trekking the dense jungle , stumbling across a marijuana plantation and avoiding The Beach (novel) heavily armed guards , and eventually jumping down a waterfall - The Beach (novel) are faced with a tight-knit and largely self-sufficient community which has almost completely shut The Beach (novel) off from civilization and which has developed a sophisticated hierarchy under the quasi-dictatorial rule of a young American woman called Sal and her South African lover , Bugs , who , along with Daffy , discovered the beach and founded the community there in 1989 .
When Richard , Étienne , and Françoise arrive , The Beach (novel) is already 1995 , six years after the founders discovered the beach .
Richard later discovers that Jed has been assigned by Sal as the island 's guardian to keep a lookout on the island 's perimeter and scope out arriving travellers who had heard word about The Beach (novel) , with a sideline of stealing some marijuana from the other side of the island - protected by heavily armed Thai farmers .
The Beach (novel) is during the Rice Run that Jed finds out that Richard gave a copy of the map to Sammy and Zeph when Jed overheard the two Americans talking about the beach to some German travellers .
On this day , only two of the fishing details are still in operation and the best detail , consisting of three Swedes ( Christo , Sten , and Karl ) who fish outside the safe lagoon area , is attacked by a shark .
Richard realises that Christo is still missing and , at his own risk , goes to find him in the partially submerged caves of the lagoon .
Unlike Richard , Étienne and Françoise who managed to overcome the five main obstacles in getting to The Beach (novel) , the newcomers never make it past the fourth hurdle - the marijuana field guarded by the Thai farmers .
Étienne corners him thereafter and soon discovers that he , along with the rest of his clique , has become afraid of Richard `` doing things '' for Sal .
The Beach (novel) has been a year and one month since their departure from Thailand , and Richard has returned to his home in Britain where he has not heard from Françoise and Étienne again , but knows he is likely to bump into them eventually because `` the world is a small place , and Europe is even smaller '' .
The Beach (novel) was made into a film in 2000 , directed by Danny Boyle and starring Leonardo DiCaprio , Tilda Swinton , Robert Carlyle , Virginie Ledoyen and Guillaume Canet .
The Beach (novel) is a year and one month .
Zecharias Frankel ( 30 September 1801 -- 13 February 1875 ) was a Bohemian-German rabbi and a historian who studied the historical development of Judaism .
Zecharias Frankel position in the controversy on the new Hamburg siddur ( prayer book ) ( 1842 ) displeased both parties ; the liberals were dissatisfied because , instead of declaring that their prayer-book was in accord with Jewish tradition , Zecharias Frankel pointed out inconsistencies from the historical and dogmatic points of view ; and the Orthodox were dissatisfied because Zecharias Frankel declared changes in the traditional ritual permissible ( l.c.
But Frankel 's conciliatory attitude was bound to create for Zecharias Frankel enemies on both liberal and orthodox sides , and such was the case with Abraham Geiger and Samson Raphael Hirsch , respectively .
Hirsch was seconded by various Orthodox rabbis , such as Ezriel Hildesheimer , Solomon Klein of Colmar , and B. H. Auerbach , while some of Frankel 's supporters , like Salomon Juda Rappoport , were half-hearted .
Frankel proved that no Jewish doctrine justified such an assumption , and owing to Zecharias Frankel work a new regulation ( 13 February 1840 ) put the Jews on the same basis as Christians as regards testimony in court .
In all these works it was Zecharias Frankel object to show that the exegesis of the Alexandrian Jews , and with it that of the early Church Fathers , was dependent on Talmudic exegesis .
John White (colonist and artist) ( c. 1540 -- c. 1593 ) was an English artist , and an early pioneer of English efforts to settle the New World .
John White (colonist and artist) was among those who sailed with Richard Grenville to North Carolina in 1585 , acting as artist and mapmaker to the expedition .
During John White (colonist and artist) time at Roanoke Island John White (colonist and artist) made a number of watercolor sketches of the surrounding landscape and the native Algonkin peoples .
Later , in 1587 , John White (colonist and artist) became governor of Sir Walter Raleigh 's failed attempt at a permanent settlement on Roanoke island , known to history as the `` Lost Colony '' .
After the failure of the Lost Colony , White retired to Raleigh 's estates in Ireland , reflecting upon the `` evils and unfortunate events '' which had ruined John White (colonist and artist) hopes in America , though never giving up hope that John White (colonist and artist) daughter and granddaughter were still alive .
John White 's exact date of birth is unknown but it seems likely John White (colonist and artist) was born some time between 1540 and 1550 .
There is a record dated February 22 , 1539 of a christening in the Church of St Augustine , London of a `` John White (colonist and artist) '' on that same day ; but there is no proof this is the same person .
John White (colonist and artist) is known to have attended church in the parish of St. Martin Ludgate in London .
In 1566 John White (colonist and artist) married Tomasyn Cooper ; with whom John White (colonist and artist) had a son , Tom , who died young , and a daughter Eleanor .
In 1585 John White (colonist and artist) accompanied the expedition led by Sir Ralph Lane to attempt to found the first English colony in North America .
White was sent by Sir Walter Raleigh as Sir Richard Grenville 's artist-illustrator on John White (colonist and artist) first voyage to the New World ; John White (colonist and artist) served as mapmaker and artist to the expedition , which encountered considerable difficulties and returned to England in 1586 .
In 1585 John White (colonist and artist) had been commissioned to `` draw to life '' the inhabitants of the New World and their surroundings .
After Lane 's colonists returned to England in 1586 Sir Walter Raleigh , who held the land patent for the proposed English colony of Virginia , tasked White with the job of organizing a new colony in the Chesapeake Bay area , one which would be self-sustaining and which would include women and children .
John White (colonist and artist) efforts did not go unrewarded ; on January 7 , 1587 Raleigh named `` John White of London Gentleman , to be the chief Governor '' of the new colony , acting under the authority of the Virginia Company .
John White (colonist and artist) , with thirteen others , were incorporated under the name of `` The Governor and Assistants of the Cities of Raleigh of Virginia '' .
On August 8 , 1587 John White (colonist and artist) led a dawn attack on the Dasamongueponkes that went disastrously wrong .
`` Elenora , daughter to the governour and wife to Ananias Dare , one of the assistants , was delivered of a daughter in Roanoke '' .
John White (colonist and artist) was healthy and `` was christened there the Sunday following , and because this childe was the first Christian borne in Virginia , she was named Virginia '' .
Just two weeks previously Queen Elizabeth John White (colonist and artist) had issued a general `` stay of shipping '' , preventing any ships from leaving English shores .
White 's patron Sir Walter Raleigh attempted to provide ships to rescue the colony but John White (colonist and artist) was overruled by the Queen .
In early 1588 John White (colonist and artist) was able to scrape together a pair of small pinnaces , the Brave and The Roe , which were unsuitable for military service and so could be spared for the expedition to Roanoke .
By this stage White appears to have formed the view that John White (colonist and artist) was born under `` an unlucky star '' .
Governor White finally reached Roanoke Island on August 18 , 1590 , John White (colonist and artist) granddaughter 's third birthday , but John White (colonist and artist) found John White (colonist and artist) colony had been long deserted .
However , local Indians had evidently looted the hiding place , and White found `` about the place many of John White (colonist and artist) things spoyled and broken , and John White (colonist and artist) books torne from the covers , the frames of some of John White (colonist and artist) pictures and mappes rotten and spoyled with rayne , and John White (colonist and artist) armour almost eaten through with rust '' Due to weather which `` grew to be fouler and fouler '' , White had to abandon the search of adjacent islands for the colonists .
John White (colonist and artist) returned to Plymouth on October 24 , 1590 .
John White (colonist and artist) appears to have been in Ireland living on the estates of Sir Walter Raleigh , making maps of land for Raleigh 's tenants , and reflecting upon the `` evils and unfortunate events '' which had ruined John White (colonist and artist) hopes in the New World , though never giving up hope that John White (colonist and artist) daughter and granddaughter were still alive .
There is also a record of an Elizabeth Aguirre of Petersfield , Hampshire ( died 1665 ) , who was the second wife of Josias White ( 1573 -- 1622 ) of Hornchurch , Essex , brother of John White (colonist and artist) the ` Patriarch of Dorchester ' , and son of a John White (colonist and artist) of Stanton St John , Oxfordshire ( 1540 -- before September 30 , 1618 ) , who afterwards married a Francis Drake ( 1573 -- 1634 ) of Walton-on-Thames , Surrey -- a first cousin once removed of Sir Francis Drake ( 1540 -- 1596 ) the famous explorer .
As the name Barlow is associated with the initial discovery and mapping of the Virginia coast by Capt Arthur Barlowe ( 1550 -- 1620 ) in 1584 , it is conceivable that Ann Barlow is directly connected to the first Governor of Roanoke , Virginia .
White is chiefly remembered today for John White (colonist and artist) paintings , which represent a unique record of 16th century Algonkin society .
This has been made necessary as the degree to which John White (colonist and artist) is actually responsible for these documentary records of the New World is not certain .
John White (colonist and artist) is an English artist .
After a failed attempt to kill the Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi ( Ewan McGregor ) and Qui-Gon Jinn ( Liam Neeson ) , Nute Gunray meets with Naboo 's Queen , Padmé Amidala ( Natalie Portman ) , and feigns ignorance .
There , Nute Gunray finally gets his chance at revenge when Padmé and the teenaged Anakin Skywalker ( Hayden Christensen ) are captured by the Geonosians while trying to rescue the captive Obi-Wan Kenobi .
A few months into the war , Gunray ( voiced by Tom Kenny ) agrees to provide the jungle world of Rodia with fresh food and supplies after Nute Gunray are attacked by pirates .
Following the release of The Phantom Menace , some critics charged that the mannerisms and voices of a few Star Wars characters represented racial stereotypes .
While most of the complaints were focused on Jar Jar Binks , complaints were also made concerning Nute Gunray and the Neimoidians negatively portraying Asian culture by associating what is perceived as `` Engrish '' accents with the Neimoidian race , known for Nute Gunray greed , cowardice , and connection with the evil Trade Federation .
In the 1903 book titled The Art of Cross-Examination by Francis L. Wellmann much effort is devoted to highlighting components of cross-examination and the impact on trials of the past century .
Indeed , in the United States , cross-examination is seen as a core part of the entire adversarial system of justice , in that it `` is the principal means by which the believability of Cross-examination and the truth of his testimony are tested '' .
Another key component affecting a trial outcome is the jury selection , in which attorneys will attempt to include jurors from whom they feel they can get a favorable response or at the least unbiased fair decision .
The new machine had 128 kB of RAM in two 64 kB banks , and an 80-column color video output .
The main Commodore system software was developed by Fred Bowen and Terry Ryan , while the CP/M subsystem was developed by Von Ertwine .
The C128 was shipped with CP/M 3.0 ( aka CP/M Plus , which was backward compatible with CP/M 2.2 ) and ADM31/3A terminal emulation .
Commodore made versions of PerfectWriter and PerfectCalc were to be made available from Commodore , and Commodore user groups sometimes had a selection of CP/M diskettes , but the limited software availability negated one of CP/M 's chief attractions -- Commodore 128 huge software library .
Intended to give the new computer a large library of professional-grade business software that Commodore lacked , CP/M was long past Commodore 128 prime by the mid-1980s , and so Commodore 128 was seldom used on the C128 .
By incorporating the original C64 BASIC and kernal ROMs in Commodore 128 entirety ( 16 kB total ) , the C128 achieved almost 100 percent compatibility with the Commodore 64 .
This feature faithfully duplicates the C64 behavior when a cartridge ( such as Simons ' BASIC ) is plugged into the port and asserts either of these lines , but unlike the C64 , where the Memory-map changing action of these lines is implemented directly in hardware , the C128 's Z80 firmware startup code polls these lines on power-up and then switches modes as necessary .
Some of the few C64 programs that fail on a C128 run correctly when the CAPS LOCK key is pressed down ( or the ASCII/National key on international C128 models ) .
's Gazette published a type-in program that exploited this difference by using a raster interrupt to enable fast mode when the bottom of the visible screen was reached , and then disable Commodore 128 when screen rendering began again at the top .
An easy way to differentiate between a hardware C64 and a C128 operating in C64 mode , typically used from within a running program , is to write a value different from $ FF ( 255 ) to memory address $ D02F ( 53295 ) , a register which is used to decode the extra keys of the C128 ( the numerical keypad and some other keys ) .
Commodore 's RAM Expansion Units utilized an external 8726 DMA controller to transfer data between the C-128 's RAM and the RAM in the expansion unit .
In the latter part of 1986 , Commodore released a version of the C128D in North America and Europe referred to as the C128DCR ( `` cost reduced '' ) .
Inside , the C128DCR ROMs , the `` 1986 ROMs , '' so-named from the copyright date displayed on the startup screen , contained fixes for several bugs -- including an infamous off by one error where the ` Q ' character would remain lowercase when CAPS LOCK was active -- and the 8568 VDC was equipped with 64 kB of video RAM -- the maximum amount addressable by the chip , equal to four times that of the original C128 .
Because the C128 would run virtually all C64 software , and because the next-generation 32/16-bit home computers , primarily the Commodore Amiga and Atari ST , were gaining ground , relatively little software for the C128 's native mode appeared ( probably on the order of 100 -- 200 commercial titles , plus the usual share of public domain and magazine type-in programs ) , leading some users to regret their purchase .
While the C128 sold a total number of 4 million units between 1985 and 1989 , Commodore 128 popularity paled in comparison to that of Commodore 128 predecessor .
The larvae are C -- shaped , have a very firm wrinkled hairy body , a very small head and tiny legs ; Cetonia aurata move on their backs , which is a very quick way to identify them .
A further tour , by the Chicago club with the addition of various All-Stars in the winter of 1888 -- 89 , took the game to Hawaii , Australia , New Zealand and the south Pacific Islands .
The tournament , sanctioned by the International Baseball Federation ( IBAF ) , was organized by Major League Baseball and the Major League Baseball Players Association in cooperation with other professional leagues and player associations from around the world .
As Japan withdrew , the US sent two ` all-star ' teams , named the ` World Champions ' and the ` U.S. Olympics ' .
( full results ) Only a small number of African countries are members of the IBAF , the members mostly concentrated in southern Africa and on the west coast of the continent .
The league drafted a mix of minor league and collegiate ballplayers , experienced Jewish ballplayers , some international imports , and each team had native born Israeli players .
The United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia both send teams to compete in the Trans-Atlantic division of the Little League World Series European playoffs .
The teams in this division are required to be majority foreign passport holders and , as in Europe , are the children of U.S. Military personal who play in Leagues on U.S. military bases in Europe .
Two local schools , precursors of today 's Jianguo High School and the Taipei Municipal University of Education drew a 5-5 tie , opening the first page in the history of Taiwan baseball .
What first brought Taiwan baseball worldwide fame was a bunch of little leaguers between the ages of 11 and 13 .
The Italian team has won 8 European titles , among which the very first title , and the team has fought out many finals with archrival the Netherlands .
Many Canadians , including the staff of the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum in St. Marys , Ontario , claim that this was the first documented game of modern baseball , although there appears to be no evidence that the rules used in this game were codified and adopted in other regions .
The London Tecumsehs of London , Ontario were charter members of the International Association and won History of baseball outside the United States first championship in 1877 , beating the Pittsburgh Alleghenies .
History of baseball outside the United States was between Club Matanzas and Club Habana , the latter winning 51 to 9 , in nine innings .
Efforts to control the flow of players to Latin America culminated in a 1947 agreement with the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues to bring minor and major league players to Cuba during the winter off-season in the U.S. Cuba League champions dominated the Caribbean Series , which began in 1949 .
Havana 's Industriales , founded by workers representatives from the cities industries and intended as heir to Almandares club , dominated the league , winning four of the first five championships .
Cuba can not compete with major league wages and this already has shown an impact .
The first wave of Dominican ballplayers to play professionally in the Major Leagues , including Ozzie Virgil , Sr. , the Alou brothers -- Felipe , Matty and Jesus -- and Hall-of-Fame pitcher Juan Marichal emerged from Trujillo 's amateur teams .
In 1955 , construction was completed on Santo Domingo 's Estadio Quisqueya , shared home to rivals Tigres de Licey and Leones de Escogido .
In 1991 , the league expanded to 8 teams from 6 , with the additions of the Eastern Caribbeans and since the 2007/08 season are the Margarita Braves ( Bravos de Margarita ) .
For the 2007-2008 seasons , the West Division ( Division Occidental ) and the East Division ( Division Oriental ) were merged in one single division of 8 teams .
A few other languages have been named similarly to C++ , most notably C -- and C In The Design and Evolution of C++ ( 1994 ) , Bjarne Stroustrup describes some rules that he used for the design of C++ : Inside C++ Object Model ( Lippman , 1996 ) describes how compilers may convert C++ program statements into an in-memory layout .
As in C , the features of the library are accessed by using the The STL was originally a third-party library from HP and later SGI , before C++ incorporation into the C++ standard .
This is in contrast to run-time generics seen in other languages ( e.g. , Java ) where at compile-time the type is erased and a single template body is preserved .
A private member is accessible only to functions that are members of that class and to functions and classes explicitly granted access permission by the class ( `` friends '' ) .
The OO principle is that all of the functions ( and only the functions ) that access the internal representation of a type should be encapsulated within the type definition .
This access specifier determines whether unrelated and derived classes can access the inherited public and protected members of the base class .
Combining advanced parsing algorithms such as GLR with symbol table construction and program transformation machinery can enable the construction of arbitrary C++ tools .
X-ray fluorescence ( XRF ) is the emission of characteristic `` secondary '' ( or fluorescent ) X-rays from a material that has been excited by bombarding with high-energy X-rays or gamma rays .
EDXRF detector types vary in resolution , speed and the means of cooling ( a low number of free charge carriers is critical in the solid state detectors ) : proportional counters with resolutions of several hundred eV cover the low end of the performance spectrum , followed by PIN diode detectors , while the Si ( Li ) , Ge ( Li ) and Silicon Drift Detectors ( SDD ) occupy the high end of the performance scale .
For less demanding applications , or when the sample is damaged by a vacuum ( e.g. a volatile sample ) , a helium-swept X-ray chamber can be substituted , with some loss of low-Z ( Z = atomic number ) intensities .
In energy dispersive spectrometers ( EDX or EDS ) , the detector allows the determination of the energy of the photon when X-ray fluorescence is detected .
When an X-ray photon passes through , X-ray fluorescence causes a swarm of electron-hole pairs to form , and this causes a voltage pulse .
Cooled by the Peltier effect , this provides a cheap and convenient detector , although X-ray fluorescence has the best resolution ( i.e. ability to distinguish different photon energies ) .
The common feature of monochromators is the maintenance of a symmetrical geometry between the sample , the crystal and the detector .
The gas is usually 90 % argon , 10 % methane ( `` P10 '' ) , although the argon may be replaced with neon or helium where very long wavelengths ( over 5 nm ) are to be detected .
Materials often used are beryllium metal , aluminised PET film and aluminised polypropylene .
Sample macroscopic effects consist of effects of inhomogeneities of the sample , and unrepresentative conditions at X-ray fluorescence surface .
This means that the calibration materials and the unknowns must be compositionally and mechanically similar , and a given calibration is applicable only to a limited range of materials .
Glasses most closely approach the ideal of homogeneity and isotropy , and for accurate work , minerals are usually prepared by dissolving them in a borate glass , and casting them into a flat disc or `` bead '' .
Further corrections that are often employed include background correction and line overlap correction .
When measuring trace amounts of an element , or when measuring on a variable light matrix , background correction becomes necessary .
Confocal microscopy X-ray fluorescence imaging is a newer technique that allow control over depth , in addition to horizontal and vertical aiming , for example , when analysing buried layers in a painting .
Farmer himself penned a number of crossover fiction stories and novels set in what is now termed Wold Newton family ; not all characters in Farmer 's Wold Newton fiction are core members of Wold Newton family , but all are linked into the larger WNU via connections with Farmer 's primary Wold Newton Family works , Tarzan Alive and Doc Savage : His Apocalyptic Life .
In 1977 C. W. Scott-Giles , an expert in heraldry , published a history of Lord Peter Wimsey 's family , going back to 1066 ( but describing the loss of the family tree going back to Adam and Eve ) ; the book is based on material from his correspondence with Dorothy L. Sayers , who wrote at least two of the family anecdotes in the book , one of them in the French language of the Middle Ages .
In 1991 , Ottawa businessman and then Ottawa 67 's owner Howard Darwin was successful in applying to the IL for an expansion franchise to begin play in 1993 , at a cost of $ 5 million .
In 2006 , the ball club was sold to Joe Finley and Craig Stein , while Pecor maintained a minority stake .
Finley and Stein declared their intention to move the team to Allentown , Pennsylvania , for the 2008 season , where a new stadium was set to begin construction that September ( now built as Coca-Cola Park ) .
The earthy part analysed as containing silicon , magnesium , iron , and a small amount of nickel , of which some parts of the iron and nickel were in the elemental state ; the earthy substance was similar to kaolin ( weathered feldspar ) , but relatively tough .
The event was used by the science fiction writer Philip José Farmer in his `` biographies '' of fictional characters ( Tarzan Alive and ) as the basis for a literary premise commonly referred to as the Wold Newton family .
Cārvāka known as , is a system of Indian philosophy that assumes various forms of philosophical skepticism and religious indifference .
While this branch of Indian philosophy is today not considered to be part of the six orthodox schools of Hindu philosophy , some describe Cārvāka as an atheistic or materialistic philosophical movement within Hinduism .
In syllogism , the middle term , which is found in both the subject ( minor term ) and is invariably connected with the predicate ( major term ) , is seen as the cause of knowledge .
This invariable connection between middle term and predicate is unconditional and causes inference not by virtue of Cārvāka existence , like the existence of the eye is the cause of perception , but by virtue of Cārvāka being known .
Since , none of the means of knowing were found to be worthy to establish the invariable connection between middle term and predicate , Cārvākas concluded that the inference could not be used to ascertain metaphysical truths .
Sanskrit poems and plays like the Naiṣadha-carita , Prabodha-candrodaya , Āgama-dambara , Vidvanmoda-taraṅgiṇī and Kādambarī contain representations of the Cārvāka thought .
`` Though materialism in some form or other has always been present in India , and occasional references are found in the Vedas , the Buddhistic literature , the Epics , as well as in the later philosophical works we do not find any systematic work on materialism , nor any organised school of followers as the other philosophical schools possess .
Dean was surprised , and Milligan shut up - but Dean guessed that someone else at Pym 's was involved .
Wimsey continues his probing at Pym 's , and learns that one of the senior copywriters , Tallboy , seems to have large amounts of cash .
The dead man ( Mountjoy ) had money but no job or assets , which fits a drug dealer .
But Wimsey , provoked by a ball which clips his elbow , shows off the form which made him a first-team star at Eton and Oxford .
Wimsey , after looking out of the window , has an alternative : Tallboy must go home , on foot , and never look behind him .
On Martin Frobisher second voyage , Frobisher found what Martin Frobisher thought was gold ore and carried 200 tons of it home on three ships , where initial assaying determined it to be worth a profit of # 5.1 per ton .
As early as 1560 or 1561 , Martin Frobisher had formed a resolution to undertake a voyage in search of a Northwest Passage as a trade route to India and China ( referred to at that time as Cathay ) .
Martin Frobisher weighed anchor at Blackwall , and , after having received a good word from Queen Elizabeth I of England at Greenwich , set sail on 7 June 1576 , by way of the Shetland Islands .
A few days later , the mouth of Frobisher Bay was reached , and because ice and wind prevented further travel north , Frobisher determined to sail westward up this passage ( which Martin Frobisher conceived to be a strait ) to see `` whether Martin Frobisher might carry Martin Frobisher through the same into some open sea on the back side '' .
Only one out of four experts consulted ( Burchard Kranich ) believed the ore to be gold-bearing , and Martin Frobisher admitted Martin Frobisher `` knew how to flatter nature '' .
After proceeding about sixty miles up this `` mistaken strait , '' Frobisher with apparent reluctance turned back , and after many buffetings and separations , the fleet at last came to anchor in Frobisher Bay .
In 1591 , Martin Frobisher visited Martin Frobisher native Altofts , and there married Martin Frobisher second wife , Dorothy Wentworth 3 January 1601 ) , a daughter of Thomas , 1st Baron Wentworth , becoming at the same time a landed proprietor in Yorkshire and Notts .
In November 1594 , Martin Frobisher was engaged with a squadron in the siege and relief of Brest , where Martin Frobisher received a gunshot wound during the Siege of Fort Crozon , a Spanish-held fortress .
It was the third most-produced American fighter , after the P-51 and P-47 ; by November 1944 , when production of Curtiss P-40 Warhawk ceased , 13,738 had been built , all at Curtiss-Wright Corporation 's main production facilities at Buffalo , New York .
No. 112 Squadron Royal Air Force , was among the first to operate Tomahawks in North Africa and the unit was the first Allied military aviation unit to feature the `` shark mouth '' logo , copying similar markings on some Luftwaffe Messerschmitt Bf 110 twin-engine fighters .
Other improvements to the landing gear doors and the exhaust manifold combined to give performance that was satisfactory to the USAAC .
This was rectified with the P-40E Kittyhawk , which abandoned the synchronized gun mounts and instead had three .50 in ( 12.7 mm ) guns in each wing , although Caldwell preferred the Tomahawk in other respects .
This was one of the characteristics that allowed Allied pilots in Asia and the Pacific to attack Japanese fighters head on , rather than try to out-turn and out-climb their opponents .
GC II/5 used Curtiss P-40 Warhawk P-40Fs and Ls in combat in Tunisia and , later , for patrol duty off the Mediterranean coast until mid-1944 when Curtiss P-40 Warhawk were replaced by Republic P-47D Thunderbolts .
The gradual replacement of Hurricanes by Curtiss P-40 Warhawk led to the Luftwaffe accelerating retirement of the Bf 109E and introducing the newer Bf 109F ; these were to be flown by the veteran pilots of elite Luftwaffe units , such as Jagdgeschwader 27 ( JG27 ) , in North Africa .
Clive Caldwell , who scored victories against them in his Curtiss P-40 Warhawk , felt that the Folgore was superior to both Curtiss P-40 Warhawk and the Bf 109 except that its armament of only two or four machine guns was inadequate .
Aviation historian Walter J. Boyne wrote that over Africa , Curtiss P-40 Warhawk and the Folgore were `` equivalent '' .
The first official victory occurred on 8 June , when Hamlyn and Flt Sgt Tom Paxton destroyed a CANT Z. 1007 from 211a Squadriglia of the Regia Aeronautica , over Alexandria .
Caldwell believed that Operational Training Units did not properly prepare pilots for air combat in Curtiss P-40 Warhawk , and as a commander , stressed the importance of training novice pilots properly .
In the Solomon Islands and New Guinea Campaigns , as well as the air defence of Australia , improved tactics and training allowed the USAAF to more effectively utilize the strengths of Curtiss P-40 Warhawk .
Contrary to conventional wisdom , with sufficient altitude Curtiss P-40 Warhawk could actually turn with the A6M and other Japanese fighters , using a combination of a nose-down vertical turn with a bank turn , a technique known as a low yo-yo .
In addition to the 23rd FG , the 3rd , 5th , 51st and 80th FGs , along with the 10th TRS , operated Curtiss P-40 Warhawk in the CBI .
The 80th Fighter Group in particular used Curtiss P-40 Warhawk so-called B-40 ( P-40s carrying 1,000-pound high explosive bombs ) to destroy Japanese-held bridges and kill bridge repair crews , sometimes demolishing their target with a single bomb .
Between 1630 and 1830 hours , all wings of the Group were engaged in an intensive effort against the enemy air transports .
The 325th was credited with at least 133 air-to-air kills in April -- October 1943 , of which 95 were Bf 109s and 26 were Macchi C. 202s , for the loss of 17 P-40s in combat .
As Curtiss P-40 Warhawk turned to fly south over the west part of the island , Curtiss P-40 Warhawk were attacked near Sassari ... The attacking force consisted of 25 to 30 Bf 109s and Macchi C. 202s ... In the brief , intense battle that occurred ... the 317th claimed 21 enemy aircraft '' .
RNZAF Curtiss P-40 Warhawk squadrons were successful in air combat against the Japanese between 1942 and 1944 .
The Finns , short of good aircraft , collected these and managed to repair one P-40M , P-40M-10-CU 43-5925 , white 23 , which received Finnish Air Force serial number KH-51 ( KH denoting `` Kittyhawk '' , as the British designation of this type was Kittyhawk III ) .
Joseph ( José Bové ) Bové ( born June 11 , 1953 in Talence , Gironde ) is a French farmer and syndicalist , member of the alter-globalization movement , and spokesman for Via Campesina .
While at university , José Bové associated with anarchists and pacifists .
The event which brought José Bové and the Confédération to the foreground was the dismantling of a McDonald 's franchise that was under construction in Millau ( Aveyron ) in 1999 .
However , the WTO , of which both the US and France are members , disallowed this restriction .
José Bové resistance , as stated by José Bové followers , is directed towards the absence of democracy in the approval of rules and their content .
Salisbury Salisbury is a cathedral city in Wiltshire , England and the only city in the county .
The first Salisbury Cathedral was built on Salisbury by St Bishop Osmund between 1075 and 1092 .
However , deteriorating relations between the clergy and the military at Old Sarum led to the decision to re-site Salisbury elsewhere .
He made the appeal -- The logic of this was inescapable , and in 1220 the city of Salisbury , now known as Salisbury , was founded on a great meadow called ` Myrifield ' .
In 1219 Richard Poore , the then Bishop of Sarum , decided to establish a new town and cathedral on an estate in his possession ( confusingly known as Veteres Sarisberias -- Old Salisburys ) in the valley , on the banks of the River Avon .
The geology of the area , like much of South Wiltshire and Hampshire , is largely chalk .
From 1833 to Salisbury demolition in the mid-1980s , the Salisbury Gas Light & Coke Company , who ran the city 's gasworks , were one of the major employers in the area.The company was formed in 1832 with a share capital of # 8,000 , and Salisbury first chairman was The 3rd Earl of Radnor .
Ammonical liquor which came out as another by-product in the making of gas , was mixed with sulphuric acid , dried and ground to make a powder which was sold as an agricultural fertiliser .
The grammarian James Harris , a friend of Handel , directed concerts at the Assembly Rooms for almost 50 years up to his death in 1780 , with many of the most famous musicians and singers of the day performing there .
The Salisbury and South Wiltshire Museum is housed in the King 's House , a Grade I listed building whose history dates back to the 13th century , just opposite the west front of Salisbury .
Bodman 's also runs the number 24 bus between Salisbury and Warminster , which replaced the X4/X5 service which used to run between Salisbury and Bath .
The Park and Ride sites , which are funded by Wiltshire Council and cost # 2.50 for parking and bus transport of up to six passengers , are : 501 Beehive - A345 Castle Road to the north , 502 Wilton - A36 Wilton Road to the west , 503 Britford - A338 Downton Road to the south , 504 London Road - A30 London Road to the northeast , 505 Petersfinger - A36 Southampton Road , to the southeast .
Salisbury railway station is the crossing point of the West of England Main Line , from London Waterloo to Exeter , and the Wessex Main Line from Bristol to Southampton .
Within Evangelicalism , the terms doctrinal statement or doctrinal basis tend to be preferred .
Some Christian denominations , and particularly those descending from the Radical Reformation , do not profess Creed .
Rabbi Milton Steinberg wrote that `` By Creed nature Judaism is averse to formal creeds which of necessity limit and restrain thought '' and asserted in his book Basic Judaism ( 1947 ) that `` Judaism has never arrived at a creed '' .
Sir David Lean , CBE ( 25 March 1908 -- 16 April 1991 ) was an English film director , producer , screenwriter and editor , best remembered for big-screen epics The Bridge on the River Kwai ( 1957 ) , Lawrence of Arabia ( 1962 ) , Doctor Zhivago ( 1965 ) , and A Passage to India ( 1984 ) ; for bringing Charles Dickens ' novels to the silver screen with films such as Great Expectations ( 1946 ) and Oliver Twist ( 1948 ) ; and for the renowned romantic drama Brief Encounter ( 1945 ) .
Bored by David Lean work , Lean spent every evening in the cinema , and in 1927 , after an aunt had advised David Lean to find a job David Lean enjoyed doing , David Lean went to Gaumont Studios where David Lean obvious enthusiasm earned David Lean a month 's trial without pay .
As Tony Sloman wrote in 1999 , `` As the varied likes of David Lean , Robert Wise , Terence Fisher and Dorothy Arzner have proved , the cutting rooms are easily the finest grounding for film direction '' .
The Sound Barrier ( 1952 ) had a screenplay by the playwright Terence Rattigan and Hobson 's Choice ( 1954 ) was based on the play by Harold Brighouse .
The Bridge on the River Kwai ( 1957 ) was the story of British and American prisoners of war fighting for survival in a Japanese prison camp during World War II .
David Lean , based on a novel by Boris Pasternak , tells the story of a physician and poet ( Omar Sharif ) who falls in love with an unavailable woman named Lara ( Julie Christie ) and struggles to be with her in the chaos of the revolution and subsequent Russian Civil War .
When , in later months , events had turned for the worse and firing Cimino was being considered by UA , Bach visited a well-known director who David Lean decided to keep anonymous in David Lean book , `` Final Cut '' .
Unfortunately for Lean , the project suffered a further setback when Bolt suffered a massive stroke and was unable to continue writing ; David Lean felt that Bolt 's involvement would be crucial to David Lean success .
Lean was ultimately forced to abandon the project after overseeing casting and the construction of the $ 4 million Bounty replica ; at the last possible moment , actor Mel Gibson brought in David Lean friend Roger Donaldson to direct the film , as producer De Laurentiis did not want to lose the millions David Lean had already put into the project over what David Lean thought was as insignificant a person as the director dropping out .
David Lean films in general have always been extremely popular with the general public , with The Bridge on the River Kwai , Lawrence of Arabia , and Doctor Zhivago among the highest-grossing films of all time .
David Lean is an English film director , producer , screenwriter and editor , best remembered for big-screen epics The Bridge on the River Kwai ( 1957 ) , Lawrence of Arabia ( 1962 ) , Doctor Zhivago ( 1965 ) , and A Passage to India ( 1984 ) ; for bringing Charles Dickens ' novels to the silver screen with films such as Great Expectations ( 1946 ) and Oliver Twist ( 1948 ) ; and for the renowned romantic drama Brief Encounter ( 1945 ) .
235 ) , often seen as just Aelian , born at Praeneste , was a Roman author and teacher of rhetoric who flourished under Septimius Severus and probably outlived Elagabalus , who died in 222 .
Often however Beavers with testicles intact , after escaping as far away as possible , have drawn in the coveted part , and with great skill and ingenuity tricked their pursuers , pretending that they no longer possessed what they were keeping in concealment '' .
The Loeb Classical Library introduction characterizes the book as `` an appealing collection of facts and fables about the animal kingdom that invites the reader to ponder contrasts between human and animal behavior '' .
Various History -- for the most part preserved only in an abridged form -- is Aelian 's other well-known work , a miscellany of anecdotes and biographical sketches , lists , pithy maxims , and descriptions of natural wonders and strange local customs , in 14 books , with many surprises for the cultural historian and the mythographer , anecdotes about the famous Greek philosophers , poets , historians , and playwrights and myths instructively retold .
Claudius Aelianus gives an account of fly fishing , using lures of red wool and feathers , of lacquerwork , serpent worship -- Essentially the Various History is a Classical `` magazine '' in the original senses of that word .
Considerable fragments of two other works , On Providence and Divine Manifestations , are preserved in the early medieval encyclopedia , the Suda .
The letters are invented compositions to a fictitious correspondent , which are a device for vignettes of agricultural and rural life , set in Attica , though mellifluous Aelian once boasted that Claudius Aelianus had never been outside Italy , never been aboard a ship ( which is at variance , though , with Claudius Aelianus own statement , de Natura Animalium XI .40 , that Claudius Aelianus had seen the bull Serapis with Claudius Aelianus own eyes ) .
Technological advances in the future may increase the usage of computerized testing and assessment services in order to do some of the jobs of Psychologist , including recognizing mental disorders .
In Australia the psychology profession and the use of the title ` psychologist ' is regulated by an Act of Parliament , Health Practitioner Regulation ( Administrative Arrangements ) National Law Act 2008None following an agreement between the state and territory governments .
The minimum requirements for general registration in psychology and to use the title ` psychologist ' is an APAC approved four year degree sequence in psychology followed by either : ( 1 ) a two year masters program or ( 2 ) two years supervised by a registered psychologist.None Endorsement within a specific area of practice ( e.g.
Counselling , Clinical , Neuropsychological , Organisational , Forensic , or Educational Psychology ) requires additional qualification .
In South Africa , Psychologist are qualified in one of Clinical - , Counselling - , Educational - , Organisational - or Research Psychology .
The threshold level of qualification for entry to the Register for clinical , counselling and educational psychologists is a professional doctorate ( and in the case of the latter two the British Psychological Society 's Professional Qualification which meets the standards of a professional doctorate ) .
The exception to this is the profession of a school psychologist who can be certified by boards of education to practice and use the title `` psychologist '' with an Education Specialist ( Ed.S ) degree .
As a follower of Artemis , Callisto (mythology) , who Hesiod said was the daughter of Lycaon , king of Arcadia , took a vow to remain a virgin , as did all the nymphs of Artemis ... but afterwards , when she was already with child , was seen bathing and so discovered .
In every case , Zeus placed them both in the sky as the constellations Ursa Major , called Arktos , the `` Bear '' , by Greeks , and Ursa Minor .
Now , however , due to the precession of the equinoxes , the feet of the Great Bear constellation do sink below the horizon from Rome and especially from Athens -- so Ursa Major gets to cool her feet and legs in the sea , in spite of Ovid ; however , Ursa Minor ( Arcas ) does remain completely above the horizon , even from latitudes as far south as Honolulu and Hong Kong .
One of the first Cinema of New Zealand films to attract large-scale audiences at home - and also see release in the United States - was Sleeping Dogs , directed by Roger Donaldson in 1977 .
A dark political action thriller that portrays the reaction of one man to the formation of a totalitarian government , and subsequent guerrilla war in New Zealand , Cinema of New Zealand introduced Sam Neill as a leading actor .
` Ngati ' is recognised as the first feature film to be written and directed by a member of a minority indigenous population ( in this case Maori ) .
This did not stop the migration of Cinema of New Zealand talent to the United States : Tamahori , Melanie Lynskey of Heavenly Creatures and Canadian-born Piano star Anna Paquin are now all primarily based in America , and some of the Warriors cast also found work there .
This has led to a number of prominent Hollywood films being made in Cinema of New Zealand , with major international productions not only filming there but also using the various post-production facilities and special effects companies on offer .
The resulting films include The Last Samurai and .
In this case , the actual counting of time ( verbally ) begins once the player falls below a certain threshold of time , such as 10 minutes ; when the time is being counted , the player is informed at intervals how much time Byoyomi have used in their current period , and how many extra periods Byoyomi have left .
The poem presents flyting between the gods and Loki .
Loki , amongst other things , accuses the gods of moralistic sexual impropriety , the practice of seidr , and bias .
Lee M. Hollander , in his introduction to his translation of the poem , claims that Lokasenna was in no sense a popular lay and suggests we should not necessarily believe that the accusations of the `` sly god '' were an accepted part of the lore .
The servants of Ægir , Fimafeng and Eldir , did a thorough job of welcoming the guests ; Loki was jealous of the praise being heaped upon them and slew Fimafeng .
In the meantime , freshman engineer Robert Yannes at MOS Technology ( then a part of Commodore ) had designed a computer in his home dubbed the MicroPET and finished a prototype with some help from Al Charpentier and Charles Winterble .
and CBM-produced publications such as Commodore Power Play , offered programming tips and type-in programs for Commodore VIC-20 .
The VIC 's low cost led to Commodore VIC-20 being used by the Fort Pierce , Florida Utilities Authority to measure the input and output of two of their generators .
Commodore VIC-20 came with RAM , but of this was used by the system for various things , like the video display ( which had a rather unusual 22 × 23 char/line screen layout ) , and other dynamic aspects of the ROM-resident BASIC interpreter and KERNAL ( a low-level operating system ) .
The computer also had a serial bus ( a serial version of the PET 's IEEE-488 bus ) for daisy chaining disk drives and printers ; a TTL-level `` user port '' with both RS-232 and Centronics signals ( most frequently used as RS-232 , for connecting a modem ) ; and a single DE-9 game controller port , compatible with the digital joysticks and paddles used with Atari 2600 videogame consoles and , later , the C64 ( the use of a standard port ensured ample supply of Atari-manufactured and other third-party joysticks ; Commodore Commodore VIC-20 offered an Atari-protocol joystick under the Commodore brand ) .
Cartridge software ranged from in size , although the latter was uncommon due to Commodore VIC-20 cost and only larger software houses produced cartridges .
It could either be attached to a dedicated monitor or a TV set using the external modulator included with Commodore VIC-20 .
In the 1980s , tension grew between Human population control advocates and women 's health activists who advanced women 's reproductive rights as part of a human rights-based approach .
Though a given region can house too many or too few people , he considered the latter possibility to be the greater evil .
Ancient Rome , especially in the time of Augustus ( 63 BC - AD 14 ) , needed manpower to acquire and administer the vast Roman Empire .
Lex Julia ( 18 BC ) and the Lex Papia Poppaea ( AD 9 ) are two well known examples of such laws , which among others , provided tax breaks and preferential treatment when applying for public office for those that complied with the laws .
He wrote : `` The strongest witness is the vast population of the earth to which we are a burden and she scarcely can provide for our needs ; as our demands grow greater , our complaints against Nature 's inadequacy are heard by all .
The scourges of pestilence , famine , wars and earthquakes have come to be regarded as a blessing to overcrowded nations , since Human population control serve to prune away the luxuriant growth of the human race '' .
`` Infanticide , or the killing of infants and young children , has occurred since early times .
Niccolò Machiavelli , an Italian Renaissance political philosopher , wrote , `` When every province of the world so teems with inhabitants that Human population control can neither subsist where Human population control are nor remove themselves elsewhere ... the world will purge Human population control in one or another of these three ways , '' listing floods , plague and famine .
Jean Bodin , a French jurist and political philosopher ( 1530 -- 1596 ) , argued that Human population control would mean more production and in turn more export , which would increase the influx of silver and gold , and thus increase the riches of a country .
Giovanni Botero , an Italian priest and diplomat ( 1540 -- 1617 ) , emphasized that , `` the greatness of a city rests on the multitude of Human population control inhabitants and their power , '' but pointed out that a population can not increase beyond Human population control food supply .
Richard Hakluyt , an English writer ( 1527 -- 1616 ) , observed that , `` Throughe our longe peace and seldome sickness ... wee are growen more populous than ever heretofore ; ... many thousandes of idle persons are within this realme , which , havinge no way to be sett on worke , be either mutinous and seeke alteration in the state , or at leaste very burdensome to the commonwealthe '' .
Hakluyt believed that this led to crime and full jails and in A Discourse on Western Planting ( 1584 ) , Hakluyt advocated for the emigration of the surplus population .
In the 20th century , Human population control proponents have drawn from the insights of Thomas Malthus , a British clergyman and economist who published An Essay on the Principle of Population in 1798 .
There is a constant effort towards an increase in population which tends to subject the lower classes of society to distress and to prevent any great permanent amelioration of their condition ... The way in which these effects are produced seems to be this .
The food , therefore which before supplied seven millions must now be divided among seven millions and half or eight millions .
The second billion was added in the 1930s , and the next billion in the 1960s .
Some economists , such as Thomas Sowell and Walter E. Williams , have argued that poverty and famine are caused by bad government and bad economic policies , not by overpopulation .
Thus , France is increasing social and women 's services , like childcare and parental leave , expecting the policy to stop the aging of Human population control population .
A more recent study by Pimentel and colleagues ( 2010 ) suggests that the Earth can support a population of two billion individuals , but only if all individuals are willing to live at a European standard of living and use natural resources sustainably .
In 1968 , Paul Ehrlich noted in The Population Bomb that , `` We must cut the cancer of population growth , '' and that , `` if this was not done , there would be only one other solution , namely the ` death rate solution ' in which we raise the death rate through war-famine-pestilence etc. '' In the same year , another prominent modern advocate for mandatory population control was Garrett Hardin , who proposed in his landmark 1968 essay The Tragedy of the Commons that society must relinquish the `` freedom to breed '' through `` mutual coercion , mutually agreed upon '' .
We two , ours two ( `` Hum do , hamare do '' in Hindi ) is a slogan meaning one family , two children and is intended to reinforce the message of family planning thereby aiding Human population control .
The Family Planning and Population Board ( FPPB ) was established , initially advocating small families but eventually running the Stop at Two programme , which pushed for small two-children families and promoted sterilisation .
Environmental determinism , also known as climatic determinism or geographical determinism , is Environmental determinism that the physical environment sets limits on human environment .
In his Muqaddimah ( 1377 ) , he explained that black skin was due to the hot climate of sub-Saharan Africa and not due to their lineage .
Ibn Khaldun suggests a link between the decline of Ghana and rise of the Almoravids .
The fundamental argument of Environmental determinism was that aspects of physical geography , particularly climate , influenced the psychological mind-set of individuals , which in turn defined the behaviour and culture of the society that those individuals formed .
To Marx 's basic model of the ideological and cultural superstructure being determined by the economic base , they added the idea that the economic base is determined by environmental conditions .
For example , Russian geographer Georgi Plekhanov argued that the reason his nation was still in the feudal era , rather than having progressed to capitalism and becoming ripe for the revolution into communism , was that the wide plains of Russia allowed class conflicts to be easily diffused .
According to this theory , about 70 % of the economic development of a country can be predicted from the distance between that country and the equator .
After controlling variables such as labour , machinery , soil treatment , and irrigation , agriculture in the Tropics suffers a 30 % to 50 % decrease in productivity relative to temperate - zone agriculture productions .
Two other clubs , the Kentucky Colonels , and the Spirits of St. Louis , were disbanded upon the merger .
The ABA also had several `` regional '' franchises , such as the Virginia Squires and Carolina Cougars , that played `` home '' games in several cities .
Dave DeBusschere , one of the stars of the New York Knicks championship teams , moved from his job as Vice President and GM of the ABA 's New York Nets in 1975 to become the last commissioner of the ABA and facilitate the ABA-NBA merger in 1976 .
Cook Strait is the strait between the North and South Islands of New Zealand .
From 1840 more permanent settlements sprang up , first at Wellington , then at Nelson and at Wanganui ( Petre ) .
Pelorus Jack was usually spotted in Admiralty Bay between Cape Francis and Collinet Point , near French Pass , a channel used by ships travelling between Wellington and Nelson .
Cook Strait first keeper , Mary Jane Bennett , was the first and only female lighthouse keeper in New Zealand .
The west ( South Island ) coast runs runs 30 km along Cloudy Bay and past the islands and entrances to the Marlborough Sounds .
Other recent ventures include Race to Learn , curriculum software that uses Formula One to encourage group working in primary school children , published through Cambridge -- Hitachi , a joint venture between Cambridge University Press and Hitachi Software Engineering that produces software for teaching on interactive whiteboards in schools .
In those days , the Stationers ' Company in London jealously guarded its monopoly of printing , which partly explains the delay between the date of the University 's Letters Patent and the printing of the first book .
The restrictions and compromises forced upon Cambridge by the dispute with the London Stationers did not really come to an end until the scholar Richard Bentley was given the power to set up a ` new-style press ' in 1696 .
It was Wright ( with two great historians , Lord Acton and F. W. Maitland ) who devised the plan for one of the most distinctive Cambridge contributions to publishing -- the Cambridge Histories .
In 2007 , controversy arose over CUP 's decision to destroy all remaining copies of its 2006 book , , by Burr and Collins , as part of the settlement of a lawsuit brought by Saudi billionaire Khalid bin Mahfouz .
The American Library Association issued a recommendation to libraries still holding Alms for Jihad : `` Given the intense interest in the book , and the desire of readers to learn about the controversy first hand , we recommend that U.S. libraries keep the book available for their users '' .
In 2008 , Cambridge University Press , Oxford University Press , and Sage Publications sued four senior members of staff employed by Georgia State University over Cambridge University Press electronic reserves policy , which is an online version of the usual reserve policy for texts used in courses .
In 2009 , the Press 's Chief Executive at the time , Stephen Bourne , was recognised for his `` leadership and commitment to responsibility business practice '' by being awarded The Prince 's Ambassador Award for the East of England .
Examples of this include alien dialogue in comic strips and graphic novels ( such as Alan Moore 's The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen , and the Valérian and Laureline series ) .
Castile -- La Mancha was formerly grouped with the province of Madrid into New Castile ( Castilla la Nueva ) , but with the advent of the modern Spanish system of autonomous regions ( Estado de las autonomías ) , Castile-La Mancha was separated due to great demographic disparity between the capital and the remaining New-Castilian provinces .
Castile-La Mancha origin lay in the Muslim period between the 8th and 14th century .
Castile -- La Mancha was the region of many historical battles between Christian crusaders and Muslim forces during the period from 1000 to the 13th century .
Other provinces to the south -- the Campo de Calatrava , the Valle de Alcudia , and the Alfoz de Alcaraz ( Campo de Montiel and Sierra de Alcaraz ) -- were consolidated during the reign of Alfonso VIII ( reigned 1158 -- 1214 ) , whose conquests were completed by the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa ( 1212 ) .
Nonetheless , during the First Spanish Republic , Albacete was one of the signatories to the Pacto Federal Castellano ( 1869 ) and in 1924 its deputation favored the formation of a `` Comunidad Manchega '' that would have recognized La Mancha ( including Albacete ) as a region .
The Organic Law 9/1982 ( August 10 , 1982 ) , which is the Statute of Autonomy of Castile -- La Mancha establishes the flag of Castile -- La Mancha and the law 1/1983 ( June 30 , 1983 ) establishes the coat of arms .
The coat of arms of Castile -- La Mancha is based on the flag of the region , and not vice versa , as is more typical in heraldry .
This stands in contrast to the autonomous communities of the Basque Country , Catalonia , Galicia , Andalusia and the Valencian Community where the president has the power to convoke elections at any time .
Castile-La Mancha directs regional political and administrative action , exercises an executive function and regulatory powers under the Spanish Constitution of 1978 , the Statute of Autonomy , and the laws of the nation and region .
The Submeseta Sur ( and Castile-La Mancha ) is separated from the Submeseta Norte ( and Castile-La Mancha ) by the mountain range known as the Sistema Central .
In the north of the Province of Guadalajara , bordering Madrid and Segovia , is a mountain range forming part of the Sistema Central , among which can be distinguished the mountain ranges Pela , Ayllón , Somosierra , Barahona and Ministra , with the headwaters of the rivers Jarama , Cañamares and Henares .
The Sistema Central also penetrates the Province of Toledo , which intersects a southerly part of the Sierra de Gredos , known as the Sierra de San Vicente , delimited on the north by the river Tiétar and on the south by the Alberche and the Tagus .
Within the Sierra Morena , distinction can be made between the Sierra Madrona , Sierra de Alcudia and Sierra de San Andrés .
Despite being the third largest of Spains communities by surface area ( after Castile and León and Andalusia , Castile-La Mancha is only the ninth most populous .
The majority of the Castilian-Manchegan workforce -- 55.5 percent -- is employed in the service sector , generating 49.78 percent of regional GDP , according to Economic and Social Council of Castile -- La Mancha ( Consejo Económico y Social de Castile-La Mancha , CES ) data for 2006 .
In the same period , the number of casas rurales ( for farm stays ) increased 148 percent to 837 and the number of beds in such facilities 175 percent to 5,751 .
In that same year , the region had 1,037 schools and 30,172 schoolteachers ; 15.21 percent of the schools were private .
Guadalajara, Castile-La Mancha is located roughly 60 km northeast of Madrid on the Henares River , and has a population of 83,789 ( 2010 ) .
The chronicles say that the Christian army was led by Alvar Fanez de Minaya , one of the lieutenants ( and according to the legend , nephew ) of El Cid .
In 1808 , Guadalajara, Castile-La Mancha was taken by the French Army led by General Hugo and Guadalajara, Castile-La Mancha was destroyed .
Very close to this church , is placed the chapel known as `` Capilla de Luis de Lucena '' , which has several fresco paintings on Guadalajara, Castile-La Mancha walls and ceiling .
Other types of monuments that are also noteworthy are the Iriépal laundry , work of 1910 in historicist style with funding from the Jose Santa María de Hita Foundation , and Iriépal ( 1858 ) and Valdenoches ( 1656 ) funds .
Guadalajara, Jalisco is the capital of the Mexican state of Jalisco , and the seat of the municipality of Guadalajara, Jalisco .
The same research noted the Guadalajara as the `` city of the future '' due to Guadalajara, Jalisco youthful population , low unemployment and large number of recent foreign investment deals , Guadalajara, Jalisco was also found the third most business friendly city in North America .
Guadalajara, Jalisco economic base is strong and well diversified , mainly based on commerce and services , although the manufacturing sector plays a defining role .
In Guadalajara, Jalisco 2007 survey entitled `` Cities of the Future '' , FDi magazine ranked Guadalajara highest among major Mexican cities , and designated Guadalajara as having the second strongest economic potential of any major North American city behind Chicago .
Guadalajara is the distribution center for the region and Guadalajara, Jalisco demands as such have led to a shifting of employment from traditional agriculture and crafts to manufacturing and commerce in urban centers .
Commerce and tourism employ most : about 60 % of the population .
This has caused Guadalajara, Jalisco to move toward high-mix , mid-volume and value-added services , such as automotives .
The $ 530 million dollar complex features luxurious world class residencies designed by famous Mexican architect Sordo Madaleno , a luxury Ritz-Carlton hotel and the shopping center complex which features elegant corridors , outdoor restaurants and cafes , anchored by upscale department stores as Liverpool ( store ) and El Palacio de Hierro .
Guadalajara, Jalisco has a number of venues and luxury hotels for this purpose , The best-known venue is the Expo-Guadalajara , a large scale convention center situated among luxury hotels .
Urbanization centered on Guadalajara, Jalisco spreads out over seven other municipalities ; of Zapopan , Tlaquepaque , Tonalá , Tlajomulco de Zuñiga , El Salto , Ixtlahuacán de los Membrillos and Juanacatlán .
Winters are relatively warm despite Guadalajara, Jalisco altitude , with January daytime temperatures reaching about and nighttime temperatures about .
The Guadalajara, Jalisco light rail/metro system , named SITEUR ( Sistema de Tren Eléctrico Urbano ) , Spanish for Urban Electrical Train System , provides rapid transit service within Guadalajara, Jalisco and the neighboring municipalities of Zapopan and Tlaquepaque .
This is goat or lamb meat cooked in a spicy sauce seasoned with chili peppers , ginger , cumin , black pepper , oregano and cloves .
Mariachi music is strongly associated with Guadalajara, Jalisco both in Mexico and abroad even though the musical style originated in the nearby town of Cocula , Jalisco .
Mariachi bands from all over the world participate , coming from countries such as Venezuela , Cuba , Belgium , Chile , France , Australia , Slovak Republic , Canada and the United States .
Private funding started in the 1940s and in 1950 , an organization called Conciertos Guadalajara, Jalisco A. C. was formed to continue fundraising for the orchestra .
The Hospicio Cabañas , which is home to some of the paintings ( murals and easel ) by José Clemente Orozco , was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1997 .
Guadalajara, Jalisco is the capital of the Mexican state of Jalisco , and the seat of the municipality of Guadalajara .
By March 1977 Labour had become a minority government after several by-election defeats , and from March 1977 to August 1978 Callaghan governed by an agreement with the Liberal Party through the Lib-Lab pact .
A series of industrial disputes in the winter of 1978-79 , dubbed the `` Winter of Discontent '' , led to widespread strikes across the country and seriously hurt Labour 's standings in the polls .
The Conservative campaign was focused on gaining support from traditional Labour voters who had never voted Conservative before , first-time voters and people who had voted Liberal in 1974 .
The proto-Austronesian words for sail , lay ( r ) , and other rigging parts date to about 3000 BCE when this group began Sail Pacific expansion .
Square sails mounted on yardarms perpendicular to the boat 's hull are very good for downwind sailing ; Sail dominated in the ancient Mediterranean and spread to Northern Europe , and were independently invented in China and Ecuador .
In particular , Sail was used by Stars and Stripes , the defender who won the 1988 America 's Cup , and by USA-17 , the challenger who won the 2010 America 's Cup .
Most modern yachts , including bermuda rig , ketch and yawl boats , have a sail `` inventory '' which usually includes more than one of these types of sails .
As with headsails , there are many types of spinnakers depending on the shape , area and cloth weight .
The traditional parallel-panel ( cross-cut ) gave way to more complex ( radial ) designs where the panels have different shapes for the top , mid , and lower sections of the sail depending on pressure of the air caused by Sail flow over the sail surface .
Sail generally weighs around 100 gram/m ² and a rough-weather sail/try-out weighs around 500 gram/m ² although modern laminated sails can weigh considerably less than this depending on the fibres specified .
Once this is done , a second sheet of PET film is placed on top and the whole mold ( with Sail ) is placed in a vacuum oven which causes the materials to bond ( curing ) .
In the Eastern Orthodox Church , Eastern Catholic Churches of Syro-Malabar Church , Byzantine rite and Coptic Orthodox Churches , Sanctuary is separated from the nave ( where the people pray ) by an iconostasis , literally a wall of icons , with three doors in it .
The area around Sanctuary came to be called the `` sanctuary '' , and that terminology does not apply to Christian churches alone : King Solomon 's temple , built in about 950 BCE , had a sanctuary ( `` Holy of Holies '' ) where the Ark of the Covenant was , and the term applies to the corresponding part of any house of worship .
During the Wars of the Roses , when the Lancastrians or Yorkists would suddenly get the upper hand by winning a battle , some adherents of the losing side might find themselves surrounded by adherents of the winning side and unable to return to their own side , so they would rush to sanctuary at the nearest church until it was safe to leave Sanctuary .
From the 1980s continuing into the 2000s , there also have been instances of churches providing `` sanctuary '' for short periods to migrants facing deportation in Germany , France , Belgium , the Netherlands , Norway , Switzerland , Australia , the United States , and Canada , among other nations .
SRAM , or static RAM , is a volatile type of memory , meaning that Programmable logic device contents are lost each time the power is switched off .
This is because Programmable logic device are too small to justify the inconvenience of programming internal SRAM cells every time Programmable logic device start up , and EPROM cells are more expensive due to their ceramic package with a quartz window .
PALASM , ABEL and CUPL are frequently used for low-complexity devices , while Verilog and VHDL are popular higher-level description languages for more complex devices .
Common file formats used to store the boolean logic pattern ( fuses ) are JEDEC , Altera POF ( Programmable Object File ) , or Xilinx BITstream .
A.G. „ Weser '' was leading company in Deutsche Schiff - und Maschinenbau AG , a cooperation of eight German shipbuilding companies between 1926 and 1945 .
A Vicious Circle ( 1996 ) is a novel by Amanda Craig which dissects and satirizes contemporary British society .
While she stays at home raising their daughter Rose , Amelia metamorphoses from spoiled brat to mature and responsible mother , whereas her husband loses all interest in the housewife he now realizes he has married .
Within the station model , the temperature , dewpoint , wind , sea level pressure , pressure tendency , and ongoing weather are plotted .
High-pressure systems , also known as anticyclones , rotate outward and clockwise in the northern hemisphere as opposed to outward and counterclockwise in the southern hemisphere .
At higher altitudes , the warm moist air is less dense than the cooler , drier air and the boundary slope reverses .
While in popular usage the term `` myth '' is often thought to refer to false or fanciful stories , Creation myth are by definition stories which cultures take to be true to varying degrees .
The Debate between sheep and grain is an example of an even earlier form of ex nihilo creation myth from ancient Sumer .
In these stories the word `` chaos '' means `` disorder '' , and this formless expanse , which is also sometimes called a void or an abyss , contains the material with which Creation myth will be made .
Often the passage from one world or stage to the next is impelled by inner forces , a process of germination or gestation from earlier , embryonic forms .
The term Grass Parakeet ( or Grasskeet ) refers to a large number of small Australian parakeets native to grasslands such as Neophema and Princess Parrot .
In aviculture the term conure is used for small to medium sized parakeets of the genera Aratinga , Pyrrhura , and a few other genera of the tribe Arini , which are mainly endemic to South America .
Other South American species commonly called parakeets include the Brotogeris parakeets , Monk Parakeet and Lineolated Parakeets , although Lineolated Parakeets have short tails .
For example , Alexandrine Parrot and Alexandrine Parakeet are different names for the same species , ( Psittacula eupatria ) , one of the largest species called a parakeet .
M. monachus belongs to the long-tailed clade of these -- macaws and conures , essentially -- , which would retain the name Arini/Arinae if this polyphyletic group is split .
In areas where they have been introduced , some fear that Monk Parakeet will harm crops and native species .
Outside the USA , introduced populations do not appear to raise similar controversy , presumably because of smaller numbers of birds , or because their settlement in urban areas does not pose a threat to agricultural production .
Since this population occurs far from the bird 's original range in Brazil - Monk Parakeet was only found in the far south and southwest - Monk Parakeet is most probably a consequence of escapees from the pet trade .
In Rio de Janeiro , the bird can be easily seen at the Aterro do Flamengo gardens - where Monk Parakeet nests on palm trees and feeds on their fruit ; the Rio birds seem to favor nesting amid the leaves of coconut palm trees - as well as in the vicinity of the neighboring domestic flight terminal , the Santos Dumont Airport and in the gardens of Quinta da Boa Vista , where communal nests of roughly one meter in diameter have been seem .
Because of Quakers ' listing as an agricultural pest , California , Georgia , Kansas , Kentucky , Hawaii , New Jersey , Pennsylvania , Tennessee , and Wyoming outlaw sale and ownership of Monk Parakeet .
Monk Parakeet , as an invasive species , has become a problem to local fauna such as pigeons and sparrows , but not yet so harmful to magpies .
The presence of this species in 7 geographically distant and independent locations in Mexico indicates that the source of these individuals is most likely the pet trade .
Henry VIII 's children , King Edward VI and the future Queen Elizabeth I , spent their youth at Hatfield House .
The richly carved wooden Grand Staircase and the rare stained glass window in the private chapel are among Hatfield House original Jacobean features .
The Gardens , covering 42 acres ( 170,000 m ² ) , date from the early 17th century , and were laid out by John Tradescant the elder .
The Park contains the national collection of model soldiers , and five miles of marked trails .
J (programming language) J (programming language) developed in the early 1990s by Kenneth E. Iverson and Roger Hui , is a synthesis of APL ( also by Iverson ) and the FP and FL function-level languages created by John Backus .
Most such `` primary '' ( or `` primitive '' ) J words serve as mathematical symbols , with the dot or colon extending the meaning of the basic characters available .
Additionally , many characters which might need to be balanced in other languages ( such as '' '' `` or ) are treated by J as stand-alone words or , when inflected , as single-character roots of multi-character words .
( This illustrates something of the mnemonic character of J 's tokens , and some of the quandaries imposed by the use of ASCII .
set n as the number of digits required NB. extended precision 10 to the nth 314159265358979323846264338327950288419716939937510 J 's documentation , unlike that of most other programming languages , is organized as a dictionary with words in J (programming language) identified as nouns verbs adverbs , conjunctions and so on .
J (programming language) is a synthesis of APL ( also by Iverson ) and the FP and FL function-level languages created by John Backus .
Once an all-human endeavor based mainly upon changes in barometric pressure , current weather conditions , and sky condition , Weather forecasting now relies on computer-based models that take many atmospheric factors into account .
The chaotic nature of Weather forecasting , the massive computational power required to solve the equations that describe Weather forecasting , error involved in measuring the initial conditions , and an incomplete understanding of atmospheric processes mean that forecasts become less accurate as the difference in current time and the time for which the forecast is being made ( the range of Weather forecasting ) increases .
Sites launch radiosondes , which rise through the depth of the troposphere and well into the stratosphere .
Commerce provides pilot reports along aircraft routes , and ship reports along shipping routes .
These equations -- along with the ideal gas law -- are used to evolve the density , pressure , and potential temperature scalar fields and the velocity vector field of Weather forecasting through time .
The length of the time step chosen within the model is related to the distance between the points on the computational grid , and is chosen to maintain numerical stability .
Time steps for global models are on the order of tens of minutes , while time steps for regional models are between one and four minutes .
As proposed by Edward Lorenz in 1963 , long range forecasts , those made at a range of two weeks or more , are impossible to definitively predict the state of Weather forecasting , owing to the chaotic nature of the fluid dynamics equations involved .
A major part of modern weather forecasting is the severe weather alerts and advisories which the national weather services issue in the case that severe or hazardous weather is expected .
A mobile unit in the RAF , working with the UK Met Office , forecasts the weather for regions in which British and allied servicemen and women are deployed .
The French were former Allies of the U.S. and the American troops were instructed not to fire unless they were fired upon .
The Western Task Force ( aimed at Casablanca ) comprised American units , with Major General George Patton in command and Rear Admiral Henry K. Hewitt heading the naval operations .
The Center Task Force , aimed at Oran , included the U.S. 509th Parachute Infantry Regiment , the U.S. 1st Infantry Division , and the U.S. 1st Armored Division -- a total of 18,500 troops .
The Center Task Force was split between three beaches , two west of Oran and one east .
This meant the Vichy regime would be maintained in North Africa , along with Operation Torch oppressive laws and concentration camps .
The Darlan-Giraud authority -- initially resolutely Vichyist -- was gradually forced to take part in the war effort against Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy .
After the German and Italian occupation of Vichy France and their unsuccessful attempt to capture the interned French fleet at Toulon ( Operation Lila ) , the French Armée d’Afrique sided with the Allies , providing a third corps ( XIX Corps ) for Anderson .
Crucifix is especially important in the Latin Church , but is also used in Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches , as well as in Anglican , Methodist , and Lutheran churches ( though less often in other Protestant churches ) and Crucifix emphasizes Jesus ' sacrifice -- his death by crucifixion , which Christians believe brought about the redemption of mankind .
Modern Roman Catholic churches often have a crucifix above the altar on the wall ; for the celebration of Mass , the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church requires that , `` on or close to the altar there is to be a cross with a figure of Christ crucified '' .
Crucifix 's in Italy that the emphasis was put on Jesus ' suffering and realistic details , during a process of general humanization of Christ favored by the Franciscan order .
During the 13th century the suffering Italian model ( Christus patiens ) triumphed over the traditional Byzantine one ( Christus gloriosus ) anywhere in Europe also due to the works of artists such as Giunta Pisano and Cimabue .
Eastern Christian blessing crosses will often have the Crucifixion depicted on one side , and the Resurrection on the other , illustrating the understanding of Orthodox theology that the Crucifixion and Resurrection are two intimately related aspects of the same act of salvation .
On some crucifixes a skull and crossbones are shown below the corpus , referring to Golgotha ( Calvary ) , the site at which Jesus was crucified , which the Gospels say means in Hebrew `` the place of the skull '' .
Prayer in front of Crucifix , which is seen as a sacramental , is often part of devotion for Christians , especially those worshipping in a church , and also privately .
In the West altar crosses and processional crosses began to be crucifixes in the 11th century , which became general around the 14th century , as they became cheaper .
The completed building consisted of a six-bay aisled choir , three-bay transepts with a central tower above , and an eight-bay aisled nave with twin towers at Holyrood Abbey west front .
In the mid-15th century , with the emergence of Edinburgh as the main seat of the royal court and the chief city in the kingdom , the Kings of Scots increasingly used the accommodation at Holyrood for secular purposes .
Between 1498 and 1501 , James IV constructed a royal palace at Holyrood , adjacent to the abbey cloister .
With the reformation and the end of monastic services , the east end of the abbey church became redundant .
In 1569 , Adam Bothwell , the commendator of Holyrood , informed the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland that the east end was in such a state of disrepair that the choir and transept should be demolished .
Between 1570 and 1573 an east gable was erected , closing the east end of the former nave , all but two of the windows in the nave were blocked up , the royal tombs were removed to a new royal burial vault in the south aisle and the old east end was demolished .
The restoration of Holyrood Abbey has been proposed several times since the 18th century - in 1835 by the architect James Gillespie Graham as a meeting place for the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland and , in 1906 , as a chapel for the Knights of the Thistle -- but both proposals were rejected .
Mitch Kapor ( born 1 November 1950 ) is the founder of Lotus Development Corporation and the designer of Lotus 1-2-3 .
Even though IBM and VisiCorp collaborated on VisiCalc for the PC and VisiCalc shipped simultaneously with the PC , Lotus had a superior product .
Mitch Kapor also co-founded , and is on the board of , the Level Playing Field Institute , a 501c ( 3 ) dedicated to fairness in education and workplaces .
In short 364/365 can be multiplied by itself C ( n , 2 ) times , which gives us Since this is the probability of no one having the same birthday , then the probability of someone sharing a birthday is A good rule of thumb which can be used for mental calculation is the relation which can also be written as which works well for probabilities less than or equal to 0.5 .
Using the birthday analogy : the `` hash space size '' resembles the `` available days '' , the `` probability of collision '' resembles the `` probability of shared birthday '' , and the `` required number of hashed elements '' resembles the `` required number of people in a group '' .
The probability of no ( i.e. zero ) shared birthdays here is where d = 365 and S2 are Stirling numbers of the second kind .
By way of contrast , the probability q ( n ) that someone in a room of n other people has the same birthday as a particular person ( for example , you ) , is given by and for general d by In the standard case of d = 365 substituting n = 23 gives about 6.1 % , which is less than 1 chance in 16 .
Some weights are put on a balance scale ; each weight is an integer number of grams randomly chosen between one gram and one million grams ( one metric ton ) .
If there are only two or three weights , the answer is very clearly no ; although there are some combinations which work , the majority of randomly selected combinations of three weights do not .
Most people 's intuition is that Birthday problem is in the thousands or tens of thousands , while others feel Birthday problem should at least be in the hundreds .
The distribution of the sum of weights is approximately Gaussian , with a peak at 1,000,000 N and width , so that when 2N − 1 is approximately equal to the transition occurs .
A sequel written and illustrated by Miller , The Dark Knight Strikes Again , was published in 2001 .
Oliver Queen ( the former Green Arrow ) predicts to Wayne that the government lackey Superman and the maverick Batman will have a final confrontation .
Clark Kent attends the funeral and winks at Robin after hearing Wayne 's heartbeat as he leaves the cemetery .
In the current DC Multiverse , the events of The Dark Knight Returns and The Dark Knight Returns associated titles are designated to occur on Earth-31 .
IGN Comics ranked The Dark Knight Returns second on a list of the 25 greatest Batman graphic novels , behind , and called The Dark Knight Returns , `` a true masterpiece of storytelling '' with `` scene after unforgettable scene '' .
Battle of Dunkirk was an important battle in the Second World War between the Allies and Germany .
A series of Allied counter-attacks -- including the Battle of Arras -- failed to sever the German spearhead , which reached the coast on 20 May , separating the British Expeditionary Force ( BEF ) near Armentières , the French 1st Army , and the Belgian Army further to the north from the majority of French troops south of the German penetration .
Two massive German armies flanked them : General Fedor von Bock 's Army Group B was to the east , and General Gerd von Rundstedt 's Army Group A to the west .
Directive No. 13 , issued by the Supreme Headquarters on 24 May called specifically for the annihilation of the French , English and Belgian forces in the pocket , while the Luftwaffe was ordered to prevent the escape of the English forces across Battle of Dunkirk .
The three days thus gained gave a vital breathing space to the Royal Navy to arrange to evacuate the British and Allied troops .
The line was as strong as Battle of Dunkirk could be made under the circumstances , but on 28 May the Belgian army , largely outnumbered by the attacking German troops , abandoned by the Belgian government but still under the direct command of King Leopold who had refused to abandon his troops and the Belgian refugees inside the little enclave of what remained of unoccupied Belgium , surrendered , leaving a 20 mi gap on Gort 's eastern flank between the British and the sea .
At 10:20 on 4 June , the Germans hoisted the swastika over the docks from which so many British and French troops had escaped under their noses .
Captain William Tennant -- in charge of Battle of Dunkirk -- decided to use the beaches and the East Mole to land the ships .
The shortage of army vehicles after Dunkirk was so severe that the Royal Army Service Corps ( RASC ) was reduced to retrieving and refurbishing numbers of obsolete bus and coach models from British scrapyards to press them into use as troop transports .
Being able to reach much closer in the beachfront shallows than larger craft , the `` little ships '' acted as shuttles to and from the larger craft , lifting troops who were queuing in the water , many waiting shoulder-deep in water for hours .
Battle of Dunkirk is an important battle in the Second World War between the Allies and Germany .
The main island ( Cuba ) has 5746 km of coastline and 29 km of land borders -- all figures including the United States territory at Guantánamo Bay , where the U.S. Navy 's Guantanamo Bay Naval Base is located .
Geography of Cuba rises between the Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean Sea .
The southern part is bounded by the Windward Passage and the Cayman Trench , while the southwest lies in the Caribbean Sea .
The dry season lasts from November to April and the rainy season from May to October Cuba is an archipelago of islands located in the Caribbean Sea , with the geographic coordinates 21 ° 3N , 80 ° 00W .
Geography of Cuba is and 191 km across its widest points .
Afro-Cuban religions , a blend of native African religions and Roman Catholicism , are widely practiced in Cuba .
Between 1842 and 1873 , 221,000 African slaves entered Cuba .
A 1995 study done on the population of Pinar del Rio , found that 50 % of the Mt-DNA lineages ( female lineages ) could be traced back to Europeans , 46 % to Africans and 4 % to Native Americans .
According to Fregel et al. ( 2009 ) , the fact that autochthonous male North African E-M81 and female U6 lineages from the Canaries have been detected in Cuba and Iberoamerica , demonstrates that Canary Islanders with indigenous ancestors actively participated in the American colonization .
Cubans require Cuban government documentation to leave , and this is commonly refused .
Currently Raúl Castro -- brother of former President Fidel Castro -- is President of the Council of State , President of the Council of Ministers ( sometimes referred to as the Prime Minister ) , First Secretary of the Communist Party , and Commander-in-Chief of the Revolutionary Armed Forces .
The national elections for the 612 members of the National Assembly of People 's Power are held according to this system , and the precepts of the 1976 Constitution .
Nevertheless , the Constitutional reform of 1992 that granted their right to exist , at the same time denied their right to gather or publicize their existence ( a restriction the Communist Party also faces ) , The most important of these are the Christian Democratic Party of Cuba , the Cuban Socialist Democratic Current , the Democratic Social-Revolutionary Party of Cuba , the Democratic Solidarity Party , the Liberal Party of Cuba and the Social Democratic Co-ordination of Cuba .
Varied conclusions have been drawn , some of these have led to Cuba being described as a dictatorship , a totalitarian state , a grassroots democracy , a centralized democracy or a revolutionary democracy .
Radio Marti , based in Miami , Florida and financed by the United States government , transmits Spanish-language radio broadcasts to Cuba .
TV Marti , based in Miami , Florida and financed by the United States government , transmits Spanish language TV broadcasts to Cuba .
As well , it is known that the Border Brigade in Guantanamo and at least one ground artillery regiment ( attached to a mechanized infantry brigade ) , based in Las Tunas , are under the Eastern Army 's command .
North Korean defectors claimed to have seen Cubans in mid to late 1990s into a secret submarine base and appeared in public view years later a single picture of a small black native submarine in Havana harbour .
Cuba makes Zhuk patrol craft and some are seen with an SPG-9 mounted on front of the twin 30mm guns .
Frank Miller ( born January 27 , 1957 ) is an American writer , artist , and film director best known for Frank Miller (comics) dark comic book stories and graphic novels such as Ronin , , , Sin City , and 300 .
Then , with artist David Mazzucchelli , Frank Miller (comics) crafted a seven-issue story arc that , like The Dark Knight Returns , similarly redefined and reinvigorated its main character .
Frank Miller (comics) had also drawn the covers for the first twelve issues of First Comics English language reprints of Kazuo Koike and Goseki Kojima 's Lone Wolf and Cub .
Similarly , a film adaptation of 300 , directed solely by Zack Snyder , brought new attention and controversy to Miller 's original comic book work .
In October 2012 , Joanna Gallardo-Mills , who began working for Frank Miller (comics) as an executive coordinator in November 2008 , filed suit against Miller in Manhattan for discrimination and `` mental anguish '' , stating that Miller 's girlfriend , actress Kimberly Cox , created a hostile work environment for Gallardo-Mills in Miler and Cox 's Hell 's Kitchen living/work space .
Frank Miller (comics) is an American writer , artist , and film director best known for his dark comic book stories and graphic novels such as Ronin , , , Sin City , and 300 .
Top 10 (comics) led to the production of several spin-offs ; Smax , which was set directly after the series ' conclusion , , which is set in 1949 and Top Ten : Beyond the Farthest Precinct , which is set five years after the series ' conclusion .
The `` darkshots '' create a direct mental connection between any cybernetic intelligence and some extra-dimensional entity .
After the precinct thwarts a minor attack by a group of anarchic `` derridadaists , '' Top 10 (comics) have to deal with the Hell Ditch Pilgrim spreading his influence and destructive insanity through all the entities in Neopolis , including fellow officers .
He informs Top 10 (comics) that Andy `` Airbag '' Soames , who five years ago contracted S.T.O.R.M.S. ( Sexually Transmitted Organic Rapid Mutation Syndrome ) , was so radically altered by the disease as to become a creature capable of entering and controlling superspace .
V , an anarchist revolutionary dressed in a Guy Fawkes mask , begins an elaborate , violent , and intentionally theatrical campaign to murder his former captors , bring down the government , and convince the people to rule themselves .
V for Vendetta , including Moore 's `` Behind the Painted Smile '' essay and two `` interludes '' outside the central continuity , then appeared in collected form as a trade paperback , published in the US by DC 's Vertigo imprint ( ISBN 0-930289-52-8 ) and in the UK by Titan Books ( ISBN 1-85286-291-2 ) .
Almond surprises V at Surridge 's home ; however , Almond -- who that same night , in a drunken rage , was abusively playing gun-related tricks on his wife , Rosemary -- has forgotten to reload his gun , so V kills him and escapes .
Finch begins to read Dr. Surridge 's diary , discovered later at her home that night , which reveals the victims ' histories with V at the Larkhill camp : V was an inmate and involuntary victim of a medical experiment run by Surridge .
When a Scottish gangster , Alistair `` Ally '' Harper , murders Gordon , Evey attempts to retaliate during a meeting between Ally and Creedy , the latter of whom is buying the support of Ally 's thugs .
Evey 's interrogator finally gives her a choice of collaboration or death ; inspired by Valerie 's courage and quiet defiance , Evey refuses to give in , and , expecting to be executed , is instead told that she is free .
He reveals that Valerie was another Larkhill prisoner , who died in the cell next to his and that the letter is not a fake .
Adam Susan , also known as the `` Leader '' , is the dictator of the Norsefire Party and V for Vendetta functions , although some of his power is ceremonial .
V for Vendetta provides the source of `` The Land of Do-As-You-Please '' and `` The Land of Take-What-You-Want '' alluded to throughout V for Vendetta .
Moore has never clarified V for Vendetta precise background , beyond stating `` that V is n't Evey 's father , Whistler 's mother , or Charley 's aunt '' ; he does point out that V for Vendetta identity is never revealed in V for Vendetta .
Co-author and illustrator David Lloyd , by contrast , embraced the adaptation .
On 23 May 2009 protesters dressed up as V and set off a fake barrel of gunpowder outside Parliament while protesting over the issue of British MPs ' expenses .
Artist David Lloyd stated : `` The Guy Fawkes mask has now become a common brand and a convenient placard to use in protest against tyranny -- and I 'm happy with people using V for Vendetta , V for Vendetta seems quite unique , an icon of popular culture being used this way '' .
After peerages ( and after the Victoria Cross and George Cross ) , Order of the Garter is the pinnacle of the honours system in the United Kingdom .
Scholar J.P. Oakden has suggested that Order of the Garter is someone related to John of Gaunt , 1st Duke of Lancaster , and , more importantly , a member of the Order .
Upon Putting on the Mantle Receive Order of the Garter , in augmentation of thine honour , ennobled with the shield and red Cross of our Lord , by whose power thou mayest safely pierce troops of thine enemies and be over them ever victorious , and being in this temporal warfare glorious , in egregious and heroic actions , thou mayest obtain eternal and triumphant joy .
After the banquet all the knights and ladies of Order of the Garter , together with the prelate , chancellor and other officers of Order of the Garter , all in their mantles and ceremonial robes , led by Military Knights of Windsor , move in procession , watched by a great crowd of spectators , from the castle , down the hill , which is lined with troops , to Saint George 's Chapel for a worship service , before which the formal installation of the new knights takes place .
Apple IIe also improved upon expandability and added a few new features , which , all combined , made Apple IIe very attractive to first-time computer shoppers as a general-purpose machine .
As time progressed , even more memory could be added through third party cards using the same bank-switching slot , or alternatively general purpose slot cards that addressed memory 1 byte at a time ( i.e.
Rather than cutout V-shaped slot openings as in the Apple II and II Plus , the IIe has a variety of different sized openings , with thumb-screw holes , to accommodate mounting interface cards with DB-xx and DE-xx connectors ( removable plastic covers filled the cutouts if not used ) .
However there was one significant motherboard update , a major firmware update , two cosmetically revised machines and an official compatibility solution from Apple , in the form of an LC PDS card for certain models of the Macintosh computer line , known as the Apple IIe Card .
At the time of the Apple IIe 's introduction , and well into the first few months of production , this motherboard shipped with all units .
Shortly after the `` Revision A '' motherboard 's release in 1983 , engineers discovered that the bank-switching feature ( which used a paralleled 64 KB of RAM on the Extended 80 Columns Card ; or 1 KB to produce 80 columns using bank-switching ) could also be used to produce a new graphics mode , Double-High-Resolution , with doubles the horizontal resolution and increases the number of colors from the 6 of standard High-Resolution to 15 .
An alternative at the time , which some users choose as a cost-cutting measure , was to simply purchase their own 65C02 CPU and create ( unlicensed and illegal ) duplicates of the updated ROMs using re-rewritable EPROM chips .
Gone were the recessed metal ID badges ( showing the Apple logo and name , with '' / / e '' beside Apple IIe ) replaced with a simpler `` Apple IIe '' silk screened on the case lid in the Apple Garamond font .
While this made no difference to the average user , Apple IIe had the negative effect of lowering the available bandwidth to the socket , which is often used by specialized devices for such purposes as measuring temperature , controlling a robotic device , or even simplistic networking for data transfer to another computer .
By plugging this card into a Macintosh LC ( and later models incorporating an LC PDS slot ) , through hardware and ( some ) software emulation , the Macintosh can run most software written for the 8-bit Apple IIe computer .
To support this , special double capacity video and keyboard ROMs are used ; in early motherboards Apple IIe had to reside on a tiny circuit card that plugged into the socket .
Another difference with the European IIe , is the Auxiliary slot physically moved in location so Apple IIe is in line and in front of slot-3 , preventing both slots from being used simultaneously for full-sized cards .
A few third-party cards are affected by this : some European cards plug into both slots simultaneously and are thus unusable on American IIes , and some American cards that do not fit into the case of European IIes because the European location of the Auxiliary slot leaves less room for them .
Original IIGS motherboards ( those produced between 1986 to mid-1989 ) have electrical connections for the IIe power supply and keyboard present , although only about half produced have the physical plug connectors factory pre-soldered in , which were mostly reserved for the upgrade kits .
Soon after the establishment of the French Third Republic , the project of building some suitable memorial to show the fraternal feeling existing between the republics of the United States and France was suggested , and in 1874 the Union Franco-Americaine ( Franco-American Union ) was established by Edouard de Laboulaye .
Bartholdi 's hometown Colmar ( modern political administrative region of Alsace ) , prides itself with a number of statues and monuments by the sculptor , as well as with a museum , founded in 1922 in the house in which Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi was born , at 30 Rue des Marchands .
At the time , 423 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Atratinus and Ambustus ( or , less frequently , year 331 Ab urbe condita ) .
The final interpretations of the result in terms of the electromagnetic nature of light , Lorentz invariance , and ultimately the general and special theories of relativity , contained no contradictions of Copernican principle although still no strong proof .
The Cosmic Microwave Background ( CMB ) radiation signature presents a direct large-scale view of the universe that can be used to identify whether our position or movement has any particular significance .
The standard model of cosmology , the Lambda-CDM model , assumes Copernican principle and the more general Cosmological principle and observations are largely consistent but there always unsolved problems .
An alternative proposal to dark energy is that the universe is much more inhomogeneous than currently assumed , and specifically that we are in an extremely large low-density void .
At the time , 428 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Cossus and Cincinnatus or Cincinnatus and Atratinus ( or , less frequently , year 326 Ab urbe condita ) .
Scheldt ( Dutch Schelde , French Escaut ) is a 350 km long river in northern France , western Belgium and the southwestern part of the Netherlands .
Today the river therefore continues into the Westerschelde estuary only , passing Terneuzen to reach the North Sea between Breskens in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen and Vlissingen ( Flushing ) on Walcheren .
This shifted the trade to the ports of Amsterdam and Middelburg and seriously crippled Antwerp -- an important and traumatic element in the history of relations between the Netherlands and what was to become Belgium .
Between 1796 and 1798 , were sold through a Crown Grant to Richard Beasley , with the Six Nations Indians continuing to hold the mortgage on the lands .
Past and present city councils have been committed to providing for the explosive population growth that is coming with the local economic boom .
Waterloo, Ontario most significant tributary within the city is Laurel Creek , whose source lies just to the west of the city limits and Waterloo, Ontario mouth just to the east , and crosses much of the city 's central areas including the University of Waterloo lands and Waterloo Park ; it flows under the uptown area in a culvert .
Waterloo, Ontario has a humid continental climate of the warm summer subtype ( Dfb under the Köppen climate classification ) ; this means that there are large seasonal differences , usually very warm to hot ( and humid ) summers and cold ( to very cold ) winters .
Breweries and distilleries had been a significant industry in the Waterloo, Ontario area until 1993 when a Labatt-owned brewery was shut down .
Bearskin Airlines started offering service in the fall of 2007 with three flights daily between Kitchener and Ottawa using a Fairchild Turboprop aircraft .
In 1968 , Laurel Vocational School ( later University Heights Secondary School ) opened , and in 1972 Waterloo, Ontario third public high school , Bluevale Collegiate Institute , opened .
The main campuses of the University of Waterloo, Ontario and Wilfrid Laurier University are located in Waterloo, Ontario .
University of Waterloo ( commonly referred as Waterloo or UW ) is a public research university whose main campus is located in Waterloo , Ontario , Canada .
Through a series of delicate negotiations which turned into bitter hostilities , the `` Faculty of Science and Engineering '' broke free from Waterloo College , partly due to the fact that the two campuses were now disjoint .
The president , appointed by the board , was to provide a link between the 2 bodies and to perform institutional leadership .
A large majority of the university 's buildings , and University of Waterloo ring road , was constructed during the 1960s .
The Northwest Campus is the least developed area of the main campus , made up primarily of farm fields and an environmental reserve , which divides the Northwest Campus from the North Campus .
University of Waterloo library system is also a member of the TriUniversity Group ( TUG ) , a partnership between the University of Guelph , University of Waterloo and Wilfred Laurier University .
Residents are represented by two residential councils at University of Waterloo , one which represents the students at UW Place , and the other which represents all the other residential villages collectively .
In regards to incorporating sustainability into the school experience , the university 's School of Environment , Enterprise and Development ( SEED ) placed first in Canada in the Corporate Knights 2011 ranking for undergraduate business programs .
University of Waterloo operates through a bicameral form of governance , the Board of Governors and the Senate , both enshrined in legislative act , the University of Waterloo Act , 1972 .
The principal acts as the chief executive officer of University of Waterloo appointed by the Board of Governors , with the approval of the Senate , and is responsible for the administering the affairs of University of Waterloo , and acts on behalf of the Board with respect to the operational management and control of University of Waterloo .
Students of these affiliated colleges and federated university , are also academically integrated with the University of Waterloo .
Waterloo functions on a term-based system , operating year-round on three different terms , fall , winter and spring .
Undergraduate programs comprise the majority of the school 's enrolment , made up of 24,377 full-time and part-time undergraduate students .
In the 2012 rankings of the top engineering schools in the world by Business Insider , University of Waterloo ranked 29th in the world , and first in Canada .
In the 2011 URAP rankings , Waterloo 's research performance in the field of engineering was ranked 43rd in the world , and second in Canada .
In the 2011 HEEACT rankings , Waterloo 's research performance in the field of engineering was ranked 74th in the world , and second in Canada .
However , by the late 1960s and 1970s , the newspaper 's increasingly left-wing agenda had resulted in the Federation of Students to freeze funding for The Chevron in 1976 , with University of Waterloo status as the official student newspaper removed by referendum in November 1978 .
The Columbia Ice Field was constructed in 1983 and currently houses University of Waterloo hockey team home rink , with a seating capacity of 700 .
The words of the song were created by K. D. Fryer and H. F. Davis , while the composition of the music was created by Alfred Kunz .
The Island of Montreal , in southwestern Quebec , Canada , is located at the confluence of the Saint Lawrence and Ottawa Rivers .
The St. Lawrence widens into Lake Saint-Louis south-west of Island of Montreal , narrows into the Lachine Rapids , then widens again into the Bassin de La Prairie before becoming the St. Lawrence again and flowing toward Quebec City .
The Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue Canal , between the western tip of Island of Montreal and Île Perrot , connects Lac des Deux-Montagnes and Lake Saint-Louis .
Another outlet of Lac des Deux-Montagnes , the Rivière des Prairies , flows along the north shore of Island of Montreal and into the St. Lawrence at the northeastern tip of Island of Montreal .
Island of Montreal is the major component of the territory of the city of Montreal , along with Île Bizard , Saint Helen 's Island , Île Notre-Dame , Nuns ' Island , and some 69 smaller islands .
Along with Stephen Longstreet and Elise Cavanna , the artists whose paintings were presented were known collectively as Functionists West .
The largest North American species is the Colorado pikeminnow ( Ptychocheilus lucius ) , of which individuals up to 6 ft long and weighing over 100 lb have been recorded .
Most cyprinids feed mainly on invertebrates and vegetation , probably due to the lack of teeth and stomach , but some species like the asp specialize in fish .
Some fish , such as the grass carp , are specialized in eating vegetation ; others , such as the common nase , eat algae from hard surfaces , while others , such as the black carp , specialize in snails , and some , such as the silver carp , are specialized filter feeders .
In the latter country , from the 18th century onwards , the common carp was bred into the ornamental variety known as koi -- or more accurately nishikigoi , as koi simply means `` common carp '' in Japanese .
The entirely paraphyletic `` Barbinae '' and the disputed Labeoninae might be better treated as part of the Cyprininae , forming a close-knit group whose internal relationships are still little known .
The small African `` barbs '' do not belong in Barbus sensu stricto -- indeed , they are as distant from the typical barbels and the typical carps ( Cyprinus ) as these are from Garra ( which is placed in the Labeoninae by most who accept the latter as distinct ) and thus might form another as yet unnamed subfamily .
Subfamily Acheilognathinae -- bitterling-like cyprinids Subfamily Barbinae ( barbs ) Subfamily Cultrinae Subfamily Cyprininae ( true carps ) Subfamily Danioninae -- danionins Subfamily Gobioninae -- true gudgeons and relatives ( including Gobiobotinae ) Subfamily Labeoninae ( including Garrinae ; might belong in Cyprininae ) Subfamily Leptobarbinae Subfamily Leuciscinae -- chubs , daces , true minnows , roaches , shiners and so on .
Steve Cokely ( June 17 , 1952 - April 11 , 2012 ) was an American political researcher and lecturer who lectured nationally on political and economic issues relating especially to the African American community .
Cokely lectured at many college campuses nationally and was also known for Steve Cokely conspiracy theories involving the Black Male elite organization known as the Sigma Pi Phi and the Assassination of Martin Luther King Jr by the hands of Rev.Jesse Jackson and the C.I.A. Steve Cokely died Cokely was assistant to the special committee on rules under Mayor Harold Washington .
Burleigh Grimes ( August 18 , 1893 -- December 6 , 1985 ) was an American professional baseball player , and the last pitcher officially permitted to throw the spitball .
( A more broad definition may include simply taking tobacco smoke into the mouth , and then releasing Tobacco smoking , as is done with tobacco pipes and cigars ) .
In a study done by Jennifer O ' Loughlin and her colleagues for seventh grade students were studied , with their first smoking experience .
Many ancient civilisations -- such as the Babylonians , the Indians , and the Chinese -- burnt incense during religious rituals .
James VI and I , King of Scotland and England , produced the treatise A Counterblaste to Tobacco in 1604 , and also introduced excise duty on the product .
When James I of England , a staunch anti-smoker and the author of A Counterblaste to Tobacco , tried to curb the new trend by enforcing a 4000 % tax increase on tobacco in 1604 it was unsuccessful , as suggested by the presence of around 7,000 tobacco outlets in London by the early 17th century .
As part of the Marshall Plan , the United States shipped free tobacco to Germany ; with 24,000 tons in 1948 and 69,000 tons in 1949 .
By the end of the 20th century , anti-smoking campaigns in Germany were unable to exceed the effectiveness of the Nazi-era climax in the years 1939 -- 41 and German tobacco health research was described by Robert N. Proctor as `` muted '' .
In 1950 , Richard Doll published research in the British Medical Journal showing a close link between smoking and lung cancer .
In 1954 , the British Doctors Study , a study of some 40 thousand doctors over 20 years , confirmed the suggestion , based on which the government issued advice that smoking and lung cancer rates were related .
In January 1964 , the United States Surgeon General 's Report on Smoking and Health likewise began suggesting the relationship between smoking and cancer .
This produces certain compounds in the tobacco leaves which can be attributed to sweet hay , tea , rose oil , or fruity aromatic flavors .
Means of consumption has greatly expanded in scope as new methods of delivering the active substances with fewer by-products have encompassed or are beginning to encompass : The active substances in tobacco , especially cigarettes , are administered by burning the leaves and inhaling the vaporised gas that results .
These nicotinic acetylcholine receptors takes are located in the central nervous system and at the nerve-muscle junction of skeletal muscles ; whose activity increases heart rate , alertness , and faster reaction times .
In some developed countries smoking rates for men have peaked and begun to decline , while for women they continue to climb .
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) states that `` Much of the disease burden and premature mortality attributable to Tobacco smoking disproportionately affect the poor '' .
For example , cigarette sales in the United States of America have been shown to follow a strongly seasonal pattern , with the high months being the months of summer , and the low months being the winter months .
Similarly , smoking has been shown to follow distinct circadian patterns during the waking day -- with the high point usually occurring shortly after waking in the morning , and shortly before going to sleep at night .
This is how one author of that study puts Tobacco smoking when he explains the very low cost for others : `` The reason the number is low is that for private pensions , Social Security , and Medicare -- the biggest factors in calculating costs to society -- smoking actually saves money .
Philip Morris has explicitly apologised for the former study , saying : `` The funding and public release of this study which , among other things , detailed purported cost savings to the Czech Republic due to premature deaths of smokers , exhibited terrible judgment as well as a complete and unacceptable disregard of basic human values .
Between 1970 and 1995 , per-capita cigarette consumption in poorer developing countries increased by 67 percent , while it dropped by 10 percent in the richer developed world .
Writers in particular seem to be known for smoking , for example , Cornell Professor Richard Klein 's book Cigarettes are Sublime for the analysis , by this professor of French literature , of the role smoking plays in 19th and 20th century letters .
The ceremonial smoking of tobacco , and praying with a sacred pipe , is a prominent part of the religious ceremonies of a number of Native American Nations .
Countries that sign on as parties agree to a set of common goals , minimum standards for Tobacco smoking , and to cooperate in dealing with cross-border challenges such as cigarette smuggling .
Among other steps , signatories are to put together legislation that will eliminate secondhand smoke in indoor workplaces , public transport , indoor public places and , as appropriate , other public places .
Another study by a team of health economists finds the combined price paid by their families and society is about $ 41 per pack of cigarettes .
In June 1967 , the US Federal Communications Commission ruled that programmes broadcast on a television station which discussed smoking and health were insufficient to offset the effects of paid advertisements that were broadcast for five to ten minutes each day .
The directive does not include advertising in cinemas and on billboards or using merchandising -- or tobacco sponsorship of cultural and sporting events which are purely local , with participants coming from only one Member State as these fall outside the jurisdiction of the European Commission .
In China , Turkey , and many other countries usually a child will have little problem buying tobacco products , because Tobacco smoking are often told to go to the store to buy tobacco for their parents .
Hong Kong restricted smoking on January 1 , 2007 in the workplace , public spaces such as restaurants , karaoke rooms , buildings , and public parks ( bars which do not admit minors were exempt until 2009 ) .
In Germany , additionally to smoking bans in public buildings and transports , an anti-smoking ordinance for bars and restaurants was implemented in late 2007 .
A study by the University of Hamburg ( Ahlfeldt and Maennig 2010 ) demonstrates , that the smoking ban had , if any , only short run impacts on bar and restaurant revenues .
41 50 4.75 N 87 37 42 W Illinois Institute of Technology , commonly called Illinois Tech or IIT , is a private Ph.D.-granting university located in Chicago , in the U.S. state of Illinois , with programs in engineering , science , psychology , architecture , business , communications , industrial technology , information technology , design and law .
The first Mies-designed buildings were completed in the mid-1940s , and construction on what is considered the `` Mies Campus '' continued until the early 1970s .
This was reflected by the Chicago Transit Authority 's Green Line rapid transit station at 35th and State being named `` Tech-35th '' , but has since been changed to `` 35th-Bronzeville-IIT '' .
Bolstered by a $ 120 million gift in the mid-1990s from IIT alumnus Robert Pritzker , former chairman of IIT 's Board of Trustees , and Robert Galvin , former chairman of the board and former Motorola executive , Illinois Institute of Technology has benefited from a revitalization .
The Institute of Psychology , now known as the College of Psychology , was created in 1996 as part of the Lewis College of Science and Letters ; the first psychology degrees were awarded in 1926 .
By 1888 these evening sessions developed into formal classes and the Chicago College of Law was established .
TechNews is the campus paper and serves as a news outlet for campus interests and as another outlet for student opinion in both a weekly paper edition and online format ; it has existed since at least the 1930s .
In anticipation of the opening of the McCormick Tribune Campus Center , the on-campus pub and bowling alley known as `` The Bog '' ceased operations in 2003 .
In genetics , complementary DNA ( cDNA ) is DNA synthesized from a messenger RNA ( mRNA ) template in a reaction catalysed by the enzymes reverse transcriptase and DNA polymerase .
cDNA is also produced naturally by retroviruses ( such as HIV-1 , HIV-2 , Simian Immunodeficiency Virus , etc. ) and then integrated into the host 's genome where Complementary DNA creates a provirus .
One difference between eukaryotic and prokaryotic genes is that eukaryotic genes can contain introns ( intervening DNA sequences ) which are not coding sequences , in contrast with exons , which are DNA coding sequences .
This enzyme , which naturally occurs in retroviruses , operates on a single strand of mRNA , generating Complementary DNA complementary DNA based on the pairing of RNA base pairs ( A , U , G and C ) to Complementary DNA DNA complements ( T , A , C and G respectively ) .
When scientists transfer a gene from one cell into another cell in order to express the new genetic material as a protein in the recipient cell , Complementary DNA will be added to the recipient ( rather than the entire gene ) , because the DNA for an entire gene may include DNA that does not code for the protein or that interrupts the coding sequence of the protein ( e.g. , introns ) .
This is achieved by designing sequence-specific DNA primers that hybridize to the 5 ' and 3 ' ends of a cDNA region coding for a protein .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 6,299 people , 2,519 households , and 1,592 families residing in Bedford, Virginia .
The median income for a household in Bedford, Virginia was $ 28,792 , and the median income for a family was $ 35,023 .
The name `` Maiden Castle '' , or Castellum Puellarum in Latin , was commonly used until at least the 16th century .
Edinburgh Castle appears in charters of David I ( ruled 1124 -- 1153 ) and his successors , although Edinburgh Castle origins are obscure .
The poem tells of the Gododdin King Mynyddog Mwynfawr , and his band of warriors , who , after a year of feasting in their fortress , set out to do battle with the Angles somewhere in contemporary Yorkshire .
However , Fordun 's chronicle was not written until the later 14th century , and the near-contemporary account of the life of St Margaret , by Bishop Turgot , makes no mention of Edinburgh Castle .
From 1437 , Sir William Crichton was Keeper of Edinburgh Castle , and soon after became Chancellor of Scotland .
The sixteen-year-old William Douglas , 6th Earl of Douglas , and his younger brother David , were summoned to Edinburgh Castle in November 1440 .
By 1511 Edinburgh was the principal foundry in Scotland , supplanting Stirling Castle , with Scottish and European smiths working under Borthwick , who by 1512 was appointed `` master melter of the king 's guns '' .
Their output included guns for the Scottish flagship , Great Michael , and the `` Seven Sisters '' , a set of cannon described by a Venetian writer as powerful and beautiful weapons which were captured by the English at Flodden in 1513 .
Robert Borthwick and a Frenchman , Antoine d'Arces , were involved in designing new artillery defences and fortifications in 1514 , although little work appears to have been carried out .
William Kirkcaldy of Grange , his brother James , with the two jewellers Mossman and James Cokke who had been minting coins in Mary 's name inside Edinburgh Castle , were hanged at the mercat cross on 3 August .
The principal external features were the three , three-storey oriel windows on the east façade , facing the town and emphasising that this was a palace rather than a place of defence .
In 1621 , King James granted Sir William Alexander the land in North America between New England and Newfoundland , as Nova Scotia ( `` New Scotland '' ) .
James ' successor , King Charles I , visited Edinburgh Castle only once , hosting a feast in the Great Hall , and staying the night before his coronation as King of Scots in 1633 , the last occasion that a reigning monarch has resided in Edinburgh Castle .
In 1639 , in response to Charles ' attempts to reform the Scottish Church , civil war broke out between the King 's forces and the Presbyterian Covenanters .
The road , built by James III in 1464 for the transport of cannon , leads upward and around to the north of the Half Moon Battery and the Forewall Battery , to the Portcullis Gate .
In 1584 the upper parts of the gatehouse were completed by William Schaw , and these were further modified in 1750 .
The areas to the north and west of the Argyle Tower are largely occupied by military buildings erected after Edinburgh Castle became a major garrison in the early 18th century .
West of the Governor 's House , a store for munitions was built in 1747 -- 48 , and this was later extended to form a courtyard , in which the main gunpowder magazine also stood .
Edinburgh Castle was formerly known as the Scottish United Services Museum , and , prior to this , the Scottish Naval and Military Museum , when Edinburgh Castle was located in the Queen Anne Building .
Adjacent to the gates are the reservoirs , built to reduce Edinburgh Castle dependency on well water , and a former fire station , now used as a shop .
The oldest building in Edinburgh Castle , and in Edinburgh , is the small St. Margaret 's Chapel .
The Forewall to the north was built between 1689 and 1695 to link the Half Moon to the Portcullis Tower , although part of the original wall of 1540 was incorporated into it .
The Great Hall measures , and was the chief place of state assembly in Edinburgh Castle , although there is no evidence that the Parliament of Scotland ever met here , as is sometimes reported .
The Queen Anne Building provided accommodation for Staff Officers , but after the departure of the army it was remodelled in the 1920s as the Naval and Military Museum , to complement the newly-opened Scottish National War Memorial .
Edinburgh Castle is run and administered , for the most part , by Historic Scotland , an executive agency of the Scottish Government , although some parts of Edinburgh Castle are managed by the Army .
Public duties performed by the garrison include guarding the Honours of Scotland , and armed stand watch at the castle gatehouse outside opening hours .
In 2006 , Sergeant Jamie Shannon , nicknamed `` Shannon the Cannon '' , became the 29th District Gunner , and in 2013 Bombardier Allison Jones , from Coatbridge , North Lanarkshire , became the first woman to fire the gun .
In the 1960s the castle was illustrated on # 5 notes issued by the National Commercial Bank of Scotland , and since 1987 Edinburgh Castle has featured on the reverse of # 1 notes issued by the Royal Bank of Scotland .
Cellular digital packet data ( Cellular digital packet data ) was a wide-area mobile data service which used unused bandwidth normally used by AMPS mobile phones between 800 and 900 MHz to transfer Cellular digital packet data .
After the four phones AT&T Wireless had offered to the public ( two from Panasonic , one from Mitsubishi and the Ericsson R289LX ) , AT&T Wireless eventually refused to activate the devices .
Cellular digital packet data is a wide-area mobile data service which used unused bandwidth normally used by AMPS mobile phones between 800 and 900 MHz to transfer data .
The Falmouth, Cornwall Docks were developed from 1858 , and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution ( RNLI ) opened Falmouth, Cornwall Lifeboat Station nearby in 1867 .
Robert Newton , Bobby Driscoll and other cast members of the 1950 Walt Disney movie Treasure Island , ( some scenes were filmed along the river Fal ) , were visitors to Falmouth, Cornwall .
Historically , the name `` Tacoma Narrows Bridge '' has applied to the original bridge nicknamed `` Galloping Gertie '' , which opened in July 1940 but collapsed because of aeroelastic flutter four months later , as well as the replacement of the original bridge which opened in 1950 and still stands today as the westbound lanes of the present-day twin bridge complex .
In 1998 , The Tacoma Narrows Bridge Collapse was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
An avalanche ( also called a snowslide or snowslip ) is a rapid flow of snow down a slope .
Avalanche initiation can start at a point with only a small amount of snow moving initially ; this is typical of wet snow Avalanche or Avalanche in dry unconsolidated snow .
The crown and flank fractures are vertical walls in the snow delineating the snow that was entrained in Avalanche from Avalanche .
In contrast to powder snow avalanches , wet snow avalanches are a low velocity suspension of snow and water , with the flow confined to the track surface ( McClung , first edition 1999 , page 108 ) .
The low speed of travel is due to the friction between the sliding surface of the track and the water saturated flow .
The angle of the slope that can hold snow , called the angle of repose , depends on a variety of factors such as crystal form and moisture content .
The angle of slope that can allow moving snow to accelerate depends on a variety of factors such as the snow 's shear strength , which is Avalanche dependent upon crystal form , and the configuration of layers and inter-layer interfaces .
Slopes in the lee of a ridge or other wind obstacle accumulate more snow and are more likely to include pockets of deep snow , wind slabs , and cornices , all of which , when disturbed , may result in avalanche formation .
Avalanche and avalanche paths share common elements : a start zone where Avalanche originates , a track along which Avalanche flows , and a runout zone where Avalanche comes to rest .
The start zone of Avalanche must be steep enough to allow snow to accelerate once set in motion , additionally convex slopes are less stable than concave slopes , because of the disparity between the tensile strength of snow layers and their compressive strength .
Full-depth avalanches ( avalanches that sweep a slope virtually clean of snow cover ) are more common on slopes with smooth ground cover , such as grass or rock slabs .
At and below tree line , avalanche paths through drainages are well defined by vegetation boundaries called trim lines , which occur where avalanches have removed trees and prevented regrowth of large vegetation .
Engineered drainages , such as the avalanche dam on Mount Stephen in Kicking Horse Pass , have been constructed to protect people and property , by redirecting the flow of Avalanche .
Human triggered avalanches have the greatest incidence when Avalanche angle of repose is between 35 and 45 degrees ; the critical angle , the angle at which human-triggered avalanches are most frequent , is 38 degrees .
This results in two principal sources of uncertainty in determining snowpack stability based on snow structure : First , both the factors influencing snow stability and the specific characteristics of the snowpack vary widely within small areas and time scales , resulting in significant difficulty extrapolating point observations of snow layers across different scales of space and time .
If ambient air temperatures are cold enough , shallow snow above or around boulders , plants , and other discontinuities in the slope , weakens from rapid crystal growth that occurs in the presence of a critical temperature gradient .
At temperatures close to the freezing point of water , or during times of moderate solar radiation , a gentle freeze-thaw cycle will take place .
When a temperature gradient greater than 10 ° C change per vertical meter of snow is sustained for more than a day , angular crystals called depth hoar or facets begin forming in the snowpack because of rapid moisture transport along the temperature gradient .
These angular crystals , which bond poorly to one another and the surrounding snow , often become a persistent weakness in the snowpack .
When a wind blows over the top of a mountain , the leeward , or downwind , side of the mountain experiences top-loading , from the top to the bottom of that lee slope .
In the short-term , rain causes instability because , like a heavy snowfall , Avalanche imposes an additional load on the snowpack ; and , once rainwater seeps down through the snow , Avalanche acts as a lubricant , reducing the natural friction between snow layers that holds the snowpack together .
Scientific studies using radar , following the 1999 Galtür avalanche disaster , confirmed the hypothesis that a saltation layer forms between the surface and the airborne components of Avalanche , which can also separate from the bulk of Avalanche .
This is caused by the loss of snow at the fence that would have been deposited and the pickup of the snow that is already there by the wind , which was depleted of snow at the fence .
In contrast , all of the accidents in the residential , industrial , and transportation settings were due to spontaneous natural avalanches .
Coleus ( coleus ) is a genus of flowering plants in the family Lamiaceae , native to tropical Africa , Asia and Australia .
The first , created by Evans and modified by later archaeologists , is based on pottery styles .
Another dating system , proposed by the Greek archaeologist Nicolas Platon , is based on the development of the architectural complexes known as `` palaces '' at Knossos , Phaistos , Malia , and Kato Zakros .
This enabled the upper classes to continuously practice leadership activities and to expand Minoan civilization influence .
Also mentioned are Cretan cities , such as Ἀμνισός ( Amnisos ) , Φαιστός ( Phaistos ) , Κυδωνία ( Kydonia ) and Kνωσσός ( Knossos ) and some toponyms reconstructed as belonging to the Cyclades or the Greek mainland .
In late 2009 , Minoan-style frescoes and other Minoan-style artifacts were discovered during excavations of the Canaanite palace at Tel Kabri , Israel , leading archaeologists to conclude that the Minoan influence was the strongest foreign influence on that Caananite city state .
Many historians and archaeologists believe that Minoan civilization were involved in the Bronze Age 's important tin trade : tin , alloyed with copper apparently from Cyprus , was used to make bronze .
The decline of Minoan civilization and the decline in use of bronze tools in favor of iron ones seem to be correlated .
Sometimes the Minoan language is referred to as Eteocretan , but this confuses the language written in Linear A scripts and the language written in a Euboean-derived alphabet after the Greek Dark Ages .
In the Minoan civilization period , naturalistic designs such as fish , squid , birds , and lilies were common .
While some of these depictions of women are speculated to be images of worshippers and priestesses officiating at religious ceremonies , as opposed to the deity , several goddesses appear to be portrayed .
In Minoan civilization 2009 book , Haralampos V. and Anastasios V. Harissis have suggested a completely different interpretation of these symbols ; Minoan civilization state these were based on apiculture rather than a religion .
Juktas , interpreted as a temple , ( 2 ) an EMII sanctuary complex at Fournou Korifi in south central Crete , and ( 3 ) Knossos , in an LMIB building known as the `` North House '' .
Claims that Minoan civilization produced no weapons are erroneous ; type A Minoan swords ( as found in palaces of Mallia and Zarkos ) were the finest in all of the Aegean ( See Sanders , AJA 65 , 67 , Hoeckmann , JRGZM 27 , or Rehak and Younger , AJA 102 ) .
The constant warmongering of other contemporaries of the ancient Minoans -- the Egyptians and Hittites , for example -- is well documented .
While Minoan civilization was formerly believed that the foundation of the first palaces was synchronous and dated to the Middle Minoan at around 2000 BCE ( the date of the first palace at Knossos ) , scholars now think that palaces were built over a longer period in different locations , in response to local developments .
Some of the elements recorded in Minoan civilization ` palaces ' ( Knossos , Phaistos and Mallia , for example ) have precedents in earlier styles of construction in the Early Minoan period .
These include the indented western court , and the special treatment given to the western façade .
The use of the term ` palace ' for the older palaces , meaning a dynastic residence and seat of power , has recently come under criticism ( see Palace ) , and the term ` court building ' has been proposed instead .
Olive oil in the Cretan diet ( or more widely , the Mediterranean diet ) is comparable to butter in the Northern diet .
Artistic depictions of farming scenes also appear on the Second Palace Period `` Harvester Vase '' ( an egg-shaped rhyton , or pouring vessel ) , where 27 male figures , led by another , each carry hoes .
The number of domestic , or sleeping , chambers at the Palaces indicate that Minoan civilization could have supported a large population of individuals who were removed from manual labour .
Also , scholars suggest that the eruption and Minoan civilization effect on the Minoan civilization may have been the origin of the Atlantis myth , via Egyptian historical accounts .
As Minoan civilization were a sea power and depended on naval and merchant ships for their livelihood , the Thera eruption likely caused significant economic hardship to Minoan civilization .
Using their functional navy and a well-equipped army Minoan civilization were capable of an invasion .
A 2013 mtDNA study of bone samples from a Minoan ossuary in the Lasithi Plateau , dated to 4,400-3 ,700 years ago , showed that Minoan samples were closest to samples drawn from the modern population of the Lasithi plateau , as well as other Greek , western and northern European samples , while being distant from North African and Egyptian samples .
Part of the socialist Palestinian rejectionist front , so called because they reject proposals for a peaceful settlement with Israel , the ANO was formed after a split in 1974 between Abu Nidal and Yasser Arafat 's Fatah faction within the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) .
Abu Nidal discovered Abu Nidal was very ambitious , perhaps more than Abu Nidal abilities warranted , and also very excitable .
Abu Nidal siblings ' scorn ; the loss of Abu Nidal father and Abu Nidal mother 's removal from the family home when Abu Nidal was seven ; then the loss of Abu Nidal home and status in the conflict with Israel , created a mental world full of plots and counterplots , later reflected in Abu Nidal tyrannical leadership of the ANO -- trusting no one , and at one point suspecting even Abu Nidal own wife of working for the CIA .
Abu Nidal worked as an odd-job man until June 1967 , committed to Palestinian politics but not particularly active , until Israel won the 1967 Six-Day War , capturing the Golan Heights , the West Bank , and the Gaza Strip .
During skirmishes in Jordan between the Palestinian fedayeen and King Hussein 's troops , Abu Nidal stayed indoors , never leaving Abu Nidal office .
These included George Habash 's PFLP ; the DFLP ; the Arab Liberation Front ; as-Sa ` iqa ; the Palestine Liberation Front , at that time headed by Ahmed Jibril who went on to set up the radical PFLP-GC ; and Black September , the cover name of a group of radical fedayeen associated with Arafat 's Fatah .
Together with Palestinian intellectual Naji Allush and Abu Daoud -- one of Fatah 's most ruthless commanders , who was later involved in the 1972 kidnapping and killing of 11 Israeli athletes at the Olympic Village in Munich -- Abu Nidal called for Arafat to be overthrown as an enemy of the Palestinian people , and demanded more democracy within Fatah , as well as violent revenge against King Hussein .
Abu Nidal 's first operation took place on September 5 , 1973 , when five gunmen , using the name Al-Iqab ( The Punishment ) , seized the Saudi embassy in Paris , taking 11 hostages and threatening to blow up the building if Abu Dawud was not released from jail in Jordan , where Abu Nidal had been arrested in February 1973 for an attempt on King Hussein 's life .
After lengthy negotiations , the gunmen and some of the hostages left on a Syrian Airways jet for Kuwait , from where they flew to Riyadh , threatening to throw some of the hostages out of the aircraft on the way .
One of the hostage-takers later admitted that Abu Nidal orders had been to fly the hostages back and forth until the NAM conference had ended .
Although the media blamed the attack on Black September , a Fatah front , Melman writes that Abu Nidal had carried out the operation without the permission of Abu Iyad , Arafat 's deputy , who acted as the liaison between Fatah and Black September .
Far from having given it the go-ahead , Abu Iyad and Mahmoud Abbas -- who eventually became President of the Palestinian National Authority -- flew to Iraq to reason with Abu Nidal that operations such as these harmed the movement , Abu Iyad later condemning it as `` illogical adventurism '' .
In response , Arafat expelled Abu Nidal from Fatah in March 1974 , and the rift between the two groups , and the two men , was complete .
Abu Nidal also became the recipient of Iraq 's regular aid to the PLO : 50,000 Iraqi dinars a month , around $ 150,000 at the time , and a lump sum of $ 3 -- 5 million .
Over 40 , including women and university students , were smuggled out of Syria to Lebanon to be killed in the Badawi refugee camp throughout the 1980s .
In one year from 1987 -- 1988 , around 600 were killed , between a third and a half of the membership .
Abu Nidal even had the elderly wife of a veteran member , Al-Hajj Abu Musa , thrown in jail and killed on a charge of lesbianism .
The dead were reported to include Hanna Gaddafi , a baby girl Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi and Abu Nidal wife had adopted , though Melman writes this was regarded as propaganda by some journalists .
Settling in Tripoli , Abu Nidal and Libya 's leader , Muammar Gaddafi , allegedly became great friends , Gaddafi sharing what The Sunday Times called `` Abu Nidal 's dangerous combination of an inferiority complex mixed with the belief that Abu Nidal was a man of great destiny '' .
It was a relationship that Gaddafi and Abu Nidal both made good use of .
In the late 1980s , Britain 's intelligence organizations , MI5 and MI6 , discovered that the ANO held several accounts with the Bank of Credit and Commerce International ( BCCI ) .
The report showed that the manager of the Sloane Street branch of BCCI , near Harrods , had passed information about the Abu Nidal accounts to MI5 , and had told them Abu Nidal himself had visited London using the name Shakir Farhan ; the manager did not realize who Abu Nidal was dealing with until Abu Nidal later saw a photograph of Abu Nidal .
The appendix shows that MI5 had learned in 1987 that Abu Nidal had been using a company called SAS Trade and Investment in Warsaw as a cover for ANO business deals , with the company director , Samir Najmeddin , based in Baghdad .
Most of the deals involved the sale of guns , night-vision goggles , and armored Mercedes-Benz vehicles with concealed grenade launchers ; many of them were worth tens of millions of dollars .
There was no shortage of European and American clients willing to sell equipment , including British companies , one of which unwittingly sold the ANO riot guns it believed were intended for an African state , though documents show half the shipment went to East Germany and half was kept by Abu Nidal .
On January 14 , 1991 , Seale writes that Abu Nidal achieved the biggest coup of Abu Nidal career with the assassination in Tunis of Abu al-Hol and Abu Iyad , Fatah 's chiefs of security and intelligence , the night before U.S. forces moved into Kuwait .
Iraq 's chief of intelligence , Taher Jalil Habbush , held a press conference on August 21 , 2002 , at which Abu Nidal handed out photographs of Abu Nidal 's bloodied body , along with a medical report purportedly showing Abu Nidal had died after a single bullet had entered Abu Nidal mouth and exited Abu Nidal skull .
Saying Abu Nidal needed a change of clothes , Abu Nidal went into Abu Nidal bedroom and shot Abu Nidal in the mouth , Habbush said .
Marie Colvin and Sonya Murad , writing in The Sunday Times , say Abu Nidal was killed by a hit squad of 30 men from Office 8 , the Iraqi Mukhabarat assassination unit .
When they arrived to raid Abu Nidal house on August 14 ( not August 16 , according to Jane 's ) , fighting broke out between Abu Nidal 's men and Iraqi intelligence .
In the midst of this , Abu Nidal rushed into Abu Nidal bedroom and was killed , though Jane 's writes it remains unclear whether Abu Nidal killed Abu Nidal or was killed by someone else .
In October 2008 , a report from the former Iraqi `` Special Intelligence Unit M4 '' was obtained by Robert Fisk , indicating that the Iraqis had been interrogating Abu Nidal as a suspected spy for Kuwait and Egypt , and indirectly for the U.S. ; the documents say Abu Nidal had been asked by the Kuwaitis to find links between Saddam and Al-Qaeda .
Abu Nidal is the liaison between Fatah and Black September .
An EPROM ( rarely EROM ) , or erasable programmable read only memory , is a type of memory chip that retains EPROM data when EPROM power supply is switched off .
Exposure time for sunlight of one week or three years for room fluorescent lighting may cause erasure .
This method of erasure allows complete testing and correction of a complex memory array before the package is finally sealed .
Because higher-density parts have little exposed oxide between the layers of interconnects and gate , ultraviolet erasing becomes less practical for very large memories .
For large volumes of parts ( thousands of pieces or more ) , mask-programmed ROMs are the lowest cost devices to produce .
EPROMs come in several sizes both in physical packaging as well and storage capacity .
Battle of Benevento was fought near Benevento , in present-day Southern Italy , on 26 February 1266 , between the troops of Charles of Anjou and Manfred of Sicily .
Pope Urban IV determined to wrench the Kingdom from him , and in 1263 , concluded a secret treaty with Charles of Anjou , giving him the Sicilian throne .
Due to Benevento artistic and cultural significance , the Santa Sofia 's Church in Benevento has been recently declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site as part of a group of seven inscribed as Longobards in Italy .
Benevento , as Maleventum , one of the chief cities of Samnium , and at a later period one of the most important cities of southern Italy , was situated on the Via Appia at a distance of east from Capua ; and on the banks of the river Calor ( modern Calore ) .
Festus , on the contrary ( s. v. Ausoniam ) , related that Benevento was founded by Auson , a son of Ulysses and Circe ; a tradition which indicates that it was an ancient Ausonian city , previous to Benevento conquest by the Samnites .
Benevento was indebted to the same circumstance for the honor of repeated visits from the emperors of Rome , among which those of Nero , Trajan , and Septimus Severus , are particularly recorded .
Not long after Benevento had been sacked by Totila and Benevento walls razed ( 545 ) , Benevento became the seat of a powerful Lombard duchy .
Zotto 's successor was Arechis I ( died in 640 ) , from the Duchy of Friuli , who captured Capua and Crotone , sacked the Byzantine Amalfi but was unable to capture Naples .
King Liutprand intervened in several times imposing a candidate of his own to the duchy 's succession ; his successor Ratchis declared the duchies of Spoleto and Benevento foreign countries where it was forbidden to travel without a royal permission .
The first decades of the 11th century saw two more German-descended rulers to southern Italy : Henry II , conquered in 1022 both Capua and Benevento , but returned after the failed siege of Troia .
In these years the three states ( Benevento , Capua , and Salerno ) were often engaged in local wars and disputes that favoured the rise of the Normans from mercenaries to ruler of the whole southern Italy .
Talleyrand was never to settle down and actually rule his new principality ; in 1815 Benevento was returned to the papacy .
The importance of Benevento in classical times is vouched for by the many remains of antiquity which Benevento possesses , of which the most famous is the triumphal arch erected in honour of Trajan by the senate and people of Rome in 114 , with important reliefs relating to Benevento history .
The castle of Benevento , best known as Rocca dei Rettori or Rocca di Manfredi , stands at the highest point of the town , commanding the valley of the rivers Sabato and Calore , and the two main ancient roads Via Appia and Via Traiana .
Benvento is connected to Naples through the modern SS7 Appia state road , and then local roads starting from Arienzo .
In boolean logic , a disjunctive normal form ( DNF ) is a standardization ( or normalization ) of a logical formula which is a disjunction of conjunctive clauses .
In Boolean logic , a formula is in conjunctive normal form ( CNF ) or clausal normal form if Conjunctive normal form is a conjunction of clauses , where a clause is a disjunction of literals .
The last formula is in CNF because Conjunctive normal form can be seen as the conjunction of the two single-literal clauses and .
As a consequence , the task of converting a formula into a DNF , preserving satisfiability , is NP-hard ; dually , converting into CNF , preserving validity , is also NP-hard ; hence equivalence-preserving conversion into DNF or CNF is again NP-hard .
Carl von Ossietzky ( 3 October 1889 -- 4 May 1938 ) was a German pacifist and the recipient of the 1935 Nobel Peace Prize for Carl von Ossietzky work in exposing the clandestine German re-armament .
In 1929 Walter Kreiser , one of the writers for Die Weltbühne , published an expose of the training of a special air unit of the Reichswehr , referred to as Abteilung M ( `` M Battalion '' ) , which was secretly training in Germany and in Soviet Russia , in violation of Germany 's agreements under the Treaty of Versailles .
Counsel for the defendants pointed out that the information they had published was true , and , more to the point , that the budgeting for Abteilung M had actually been cited in reports by the Reichstag 's budgeting commission .
-- Ruling of the Bundesgerichtshof , 3 December 1992 Supporters of convicted Israeli whistleblower Mordechai Vanunu and Nobel prize winning Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo have compared them to Carl von Ossietzky .
The International League for Human Rights ( ILHR ) awards an annual Carl von Ossietzky Medal `` to honor citizens or initiatives that promote basic human rights '' .
Calendula ( Ca-lén-du-la ) , marigold , is a genus of about 12 -- 20 species of annual or perennial herbaceous plants in the daisy family Asteraceae , native to an area from Macaronesia east through the Mediterranean to Iran .
The name `` calendula '' is a modern Latin diminutive of calendae , meaning `` little calendar '' , `` little clock '' or possibly `` little weather-glass '' .
Claims that Calendula old Saxon or Anglo-Saxon name is ` ymbglidegold ' are unsubstantiated , as is the claim that this means ` Calendula turns with the sun ' .
In a randomized study of 254 radiation patients , topical application of 4 % calendula ointment resulted in far fewer occurrences of Grade 2 or higher dermatitis than occurred in the group using trolamine .
The yellow-orange and pale-yellow petals of the calendula plant are said to have been used for dye before synthetic dyes were available .
Newport, Rhode Island is located 23 mi south of Providence , and 61 mi south of Boston .
The population of Newport, Rhode Island had divided loyalties and many pro independence `` Patriots '' left town while loyalist `` Tories '' remained .
This weakened the American position and the British were able to expel the Americans from the island .
On July 10 , 1780 , a French expedition sent by King Louis XVI commanded by Rochambeau arrived with an army of 450 officers and 5,300 men in Narragansett Bay off Newport, Rhode Island .
Newport, Rhode Island was in Newport in 1791 that the Rhode Island General Assembly , acting under pressure from the merchant community of Providence , voted to ratify the Constitution and become the 13th state .
To this day , St. Patrick 's Day is an important day of pride and celebration in Newport, Rhode Island , with a large parade going down Thames Street .
Presidents Kennedy and Eisenhower both made Newport, Rhode Island the sites of their `` Summer White Houses '' during their years in office .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 24,672 people , 10,616 households , and 4,933 families residing in Newport, Rhode Island .
Another National Historic Landmark District , Bellevue Avenue , is the home of the International Tennis Hall of Fame , where important tennis players are commemorated , as well as a number of mansions dating back to the Gilded Age , including The Breakers , Belcourt Castle , Chateau-sur-Mer , The Elms , Marble House , Rosecliff , Rough Point , and the William Watts Sherman House .
Newport, Rhode Island plays host to a number of festivals during the summer months , including the Newport, Rhode Island Jazz Festival , the Sunset Music Festival , the Newport, Rhode Island Folk Festival ( where Bob Dylan infamously `` went electric '' in 1965 ) , the Newport, Rhode Island International Film Festival , and the Newport, Rhode Island International Boat Show .
In Newport, Rhode Island , the largest public beach , Easton 's beach , or First Beach , has a view of the famed Cliff Walk .
Newport, Rhode Island two private beaches , Bailey 's Beach ( Spouting Rock Beach Association ) , and Hazard 's Beach , are each exclusive and located on Ocean Drive .
Fernand Joseph Désiré Contandin ( 8 May 1903 -- 26 February 1971 ) , better known as Fernandel , was a French actor and singer .
This was managed by NASA Ames Research Center as part of the Pioneer series of spacecraft that included Pioneer 10 and Pioneer 11 .
A 1.09 m despun dish antenna provided S and X band communication with Earth .
The large probe was released on November 16 , 1978 , and the three small probes on November 20 .
In mathematics , Lyapunov fractal fractals ( also known as Markus -- Lyapunov fractals ) are bifurcational fractals derived from an extension of the logistic map in which the degree of the growth of Lyapunov fractal , r , periodically switches between two values A and B .
Lyapunov fractal is constructed by mapping the regions of stability and chaotic behaviour ( measured using the Lyapunov fractal exponent ) in the a & minus ; b plane for given periodic sequences of a and b .
In practice , shifting this sequence leads to changes in Lyapunov fractal , as some branches get covered by others ; notice for instance how the Lyapunov fractal for the iteration sequence AB is not perfectly symmetric with respect to a and b .
Lyapunov fractal is bifurcational fractals derived from an extension of the logistic map in which the degree of the growth of the population , r , periodically switches between two values A and B .
Fraxinus quadrangulata ( Blue Ash ) is a species of Fraxinus native primarily to the Midwestern United States , as well as the Bluegrass region of Kentucky and the Nashville Basin region of Tennessee .
The songs were written by Arthur Schwartz and Howard Dietz , and some were created for the original 1931 Broadway musical also called The Band Wagon , with a book by George S. Kaufman and starring Fred Astaire and his sister Adele .
Another song orchestrated by Conrad Salinger , `` Dancing in the Dark '' , is considered part of the Great American Songbook and was from the original Broadway production .
Screenwriters Betty Comden and Adolph Green , who received the nomination for the screenplay , patterned The Band Wagon characters Lester and Lily Marton after themselves , although the fictional characters were a married couple and Comden and Green were not romantically involved .
In 1995 , The Band Wagon was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
Tony signs up , despite misgivings after the director , Jeffrey Cordova , changes the light comedy into a dark reinterpretation of the Faust legend , with himself as the Devil and Tony as the Faust character .
Tony also feels intimidated by the youth , beauty , and classical background of his female co-star , noted ballerina Gabrielle `` Gaby '' Gerard .
But `` Dancing '' is some distance from finding The Band Wagon footing , despite finale 's admonition to `` Admit we 're a hit and we 'll go on from there '' .
Michael Jackson in his music video for `` Smooth Criminal '' pays tribute to the Fred Astaire film in his dance sequence in the 1930s or 1940s style lounge as in the Astaire film where the bar fight takes place .
Jackson wears a white suit with a blue collar shirt underneath and a white hat with a black stripe on The Band Wagon paying tribute to what Astaire was wearing in The Band Wagon 's finale , `` The Girl Hunt Ballet '' .
United States corporations that fall into the category of `` big business '' include ExxonMobil , Wal-Mart , Apple , Google , Microsoft , General Electric , General Motors , Citigroup and Goldman Sachs .
The Industrial Revolution of the late 18th and 19th centuries led to the formation of many manufacturing businesses , some of which eventually grew to a size that might be termed as `` big business '' .
The first business sectors that reached this size class ( i.e. large concentrations of assets and earnings within individual corporations ) were railroads and steel , along with several large merchant banks that financed the rapid growth ( e.g.
Miniaturization and integrated circuits , together with an expansion of radio and television technologies , provided fertile ground for business development .
The social consequences of the concentration of economic power in the hands of those persons controlling `` big business '' has been a constant concern both of economists and of politicians since the end of the 19th century .
In 1992 The Big Parade was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
That night , orders come down for one man to go out and eliminate a troublesome mortar crew ; Slim wins a spitting contest for the opportunity .
Jim collapses and is carried off in an ambulance by retreating soldiers .
Montpellier , first mentioned in a document of 985 , was founded under a local feudal dynasty , the Guilhem , who combined two hamlets and built a castle and walls around the united settlement .
The two surviving towers of the city walls , the Tour des Pins and the Tour de la Babotte , were built later , around the year 1200 .
Montpellier faculties of law and medicine were established in 1220 by Cardinal Conrad of Urach , legate of Pope Honorius III ; the medicine faculty has , over the centuries , been one of the major centres for the teaching of medicine in Europe .
For most of Montpellier history , and even today , Montpellier is known for Montpellier significant Spanish population , heritage and influence .
There are plans to construct a high-speed railway linking Nîmes and Montpellier with the LGV Méditerranée .
The Transports de l'agglomération de Montpellier ( TaM ) manages the city 's public transportation , including Montpellier tramway network consisting of four lines and several parking facilities .
They intersect at Gare St. Roch station , Rives du Lez and Corum .
The TaM also manages the large bike sharing scheme Vélomagg ' , started in June 2007 , comprising 1200 bicycles and 50 stations .
`` Montpellier '' is used as the name of other towns and streets in as many as four continents .
Last of the Summer Wine premiered as an episode of Comedy Playhouse on 4 January 1973 and the first series of episodes followed on 12 November 1973 .
When Bates dropped out through illness in 1976 after two series , the role of the third man of the trio was filled in various years up to the 30th series by the quirky war veteran Foggy Dewhurst ( Brian Wilde ) , the eccentric inventor Seymour Uttherthwaite ( Michael Aldridge ) , and former police officer Truly Truelove ( Frank Thornton ) .
Although some feel the show 's quality declined over the years , Last of the Summer Wine continued to receive large audiences for the BBC and was praised for Last of the Summer Wine positive portrayal of older people and family-friendly humour .
Took 's idea was passed to James Gilbert and Roy Clarke via Duncan Wood , who was at that time filming Comedy Playhouse .
Though the exterior shots were always filmed on location in Holmfirth and the surrounding countryside , the interior shots were , until the early 1990s , filmed in front of a live studio audience at BBC Television Centre in London .
Brian Wilde , Michael Aldridge and Frank Thornton each brought a sense of completion to the trio after the departure of the preceding third man .
Tom Owen provided a direct link between his father and himself after the death of Bill Owen .
Brian Murphy was chosen as Nora Batty 's neighbour because of his work on George and Mildred , where he played the husband to a strong-willed woman .
Butler and Martin , however , were dropped as major characters after the first series .
When Alan J. W. Bell took over as producer , the plots of Last of the Summer Wine moved away from the original dialogue-packed scenes in the pub and the library ; guest actors were brought in to interact with the trio in new situations .
Although many of these guest appearances would last for only one episode , some led to a permanent role on the show , as in the cases of Gordon Wharmby , Thora Hird , Jean Alexander , Stephen Lewis , Dora Bryan , Keith Clifford , Brian Murphy , Josephine Tewson , June Whitfield , Barbara Young , and Trevor Bannister .
Last of the Summer Wine is the longest-running comedy programme in Britain , and the longest running situation comedy in the world .
Broadcast on 13 April 2003 , this version featured an expanded interview with Brian Wilde and new interviews with Brian Murphy and Burt Kwouk .
A set of Christmas specials that was originally broadcast between 1978 and 1982 followed in October 2009 .
In 1985 , the show was once again produced , first as a two-week tour of Britain , and then as another summer season in Bournemouth .
Kitson and Emerick , who appeared together on Last of the Summer Wine as Police Constables Cooper and Walsh from 2003 to 2010 , reprised their roles in an improvised stage play .
On 5 November 2012 , a new book entitled `` Last of the Summer Wine : From The Directors Chair '' was released and was written by producer and director Alan J.W Bell .
He then uses his wits to prevent the pirates from blowing up the ship along with the crew and passengers , suggesting that The Black Pirate hold the ship for ransom .
In the end , The Black Pirate is revealed to be a Duke , and the `` Princess '' he loves a noble Lady .
Ben-Hur -- filmed around the same time -- contains two-tone sequences but is shot primarily in black-and-white with tinting and toning in many scenes .
Blacksmith Scene ( also known as Blacksmith Scene 1 and Blacksmithing Scene ) is an 1893 American short black-and-white silent film directed by William K.L. Dickson , the Scottish-French inventor credited with the invention of the motion picture camera under the employ of Thomas Edison .
In 1995 , Blacksmith Scene was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
Malvasia ( , also known as Malvazia ) is a group of wine grape varieties grown historically in the Mediterranean region , Balearic islands , Canary Islands and the island of Madeira , but now grown in many of the winemaking regions of the world .
In the past , the names Malvasia , Malvazia , and Malmsey have been used interchangeably for Malvasia-based wines ; however , in modern oenology , `` Malmsey '' is now used almost exclusively for a sweet variety of Madeira wine made from Malvasia .
The name `` Malvasia '' is generally thought to derive from Monemvasia , a Venetian fortress on the coast of Laconia , known in Italian as `` Malvasia '' ; this port would have acted as a trading center for wine produced in the eastern Peloponnese and perhaps in some of the Cyclades .
Most varieties of Malvasia are derived from Malvasia bianca which is characterized by Malvasia deep color , noted aromas and the presence of some residual sugar .
Fortified Malvasia , such as Madeira , are noted for their intense smokey notes and sharp acidity .
As Malvasia ages , the wines tend to take on more nutty aromas and flavors though many Malvasia have a short life span of only a few years after vintage .
In the past , the names `` Malvasia '' and `` Malmsey '' have been used interchangeably .
Presently , however , `` Malvasia '' generally refers to unfortified white table or dessert wines produced from this grape , while `` Malmsey '' refers to a sweet variety of Madeira wine , though the latter are also sometimes called `` Malvasia '' or `` Malvazia '' .
This was an outcome of the devastation of Madeiran vineyards by phylloxera in the late 19th century , after which , production of Malvasia and other `` noble grape '' varieties on Madeira was greatly reduced for the next century .
Even further confusion results from the fact that vintage-dated Malmseys are often labeled `` Malvasia '' or `` Malvazia '' , probably because the relatively rare vintage Malvasias were always made with Malvasia grapes even when most non-vintage `` Malmsey '' was being made from lesser varieties .
`` Malvasia '' or `` Malvazia '' is occasionally used by some companies for non-vintage Madeiras , especially those primarily marketed to Portuguese-speaking countries .
For instance , the French Foreign Legion and the Gurkhas of the British and Indian armies are not mercenaries under the laws of war , since although Mercenary may meet many of the requirements of Article 47 of Protocol I to the Geneva Conventions , they are exempt under clauses 47 ( a ) ( c ) ( d ) ( e ) & ( f ) ; some journalists describe them as mercenaries nevertheless .
According to the GC III , a captured soldier must be treated as a lawful combatant and , therefore , as a protected person with prisoner-of-war status until facing a competent tribunal ( GC III Art 5 ) .
The best known post-World War II example of this was on 28 June 1976 when , at the end of the Luanda Trial ' , an Angolan court sentenced three Britons and an American to death and nine other mercenaries to prison terms ranging from 16 to 30 years .
d ) , and Mercenary are involved with a fire-fight in the continuing conflict , Mercenary are mercenary soldiers .
The United Kingdom passed a Foreign Enlistment Act in 1819 and then the Foreign Enlistment Act 1870 , making Mercenary unlawful for British subjects to join the armed forces of any state warring with another state at peace with Britain .
The British government considered using the Act against British subjects fighting for the International Brigade in the Spanish Civil War and the FNLA in the Angolan Civil War ; nothing happened .
It is the combatant commander 's responsibility to ensure that private security contract mission statements do not authorize performance of inherently Governmental military functions , i.e. preemptive attacks or assaults or raids , etc. Otherwise , civilians with U.S. Armed Forces lose their law of war protection from direct attack if and for such time as they directly participate in hostilities .
The contract , worth about $ 400 million , calls for a private company to provide intelligence services to the U.S. Army and security for the Army Corps of Engineers on reconstruction work in Iraq .
The case , which is being heard by the U.S. Court of Federal Claims , puts on trial one of the most controversial and least understood aspects of the Iraq war : the outsourcing of military security to an estimated 20,000 armed contractors .
This means that as members of the armed forces of Britain , India , and France these soldiers are not Mercenary soldiers per APGC77 Art 47 .
The private military company ( PMC ) is the contemporary strand of the Mercenary trade , providing logistics , soldiers , military training , and other services .
Nevertheless , PMCs may use armed force , hence defined as : `` legally established enterprises that make a profit , by either providing services involving the potential exercise of armed force in a systematic way and by military means , and/or by the transfer of that potential to clients through training and other practices , such as logistics support , equipment procurement , and intelligence gathering '' .
Private paramilitary forces are functionally mercenary armies , not security guards or advisors ; however , national governments reserve the right to control the number , nature , and armaments of such private armies , arguing that , provided Mercenary are not pro-actively employed in front-line combat , Mercenary are not mercenaries .
That said , PMC `` civilian contractors '' have poor repute among professional government soldiers and officers -- the U.S. Military Command have questioned their war zone behavior .
In September 2005 , Brigadier General Karl Horst , deputy commander of the Third Infantry Division charged with Baghdad security after the 2003 invasion , said of DynCorp and other PMCs in Iraq : These guys run loose in this country and do stupid stuff .
Other companies from different countries , including Israel , have also signed contracts with the Colombian Defense Ministry to carry out security or military activities .
A common argument for using PMCs ( used by the PMCs themselves ) , is that PMCs may be able to help combat genocide and civilian slaughter where the UN is unwilling or unable to intervene .
Many countries , including the United States and the United Kingdom , are not signatories to the 1989 United Nations Mercenary Convention banning the use of Mercenary .
A spokesman for the U.S. Mission to U.N. denied that Blackwater security guards were mercenaries , saying `` Accusations that U.S. government-contracted security guards , of whatever nationality , are mercenaries is inaccurate and demeaning to men and women who put their lives on the line to protect people and facilities every day '' .
A long established foreign corps in the Egyptian forces were the Medjay -- a generic term given to tribal scouts and light infantry recruited from Nubia serving from the late period of the Old Kingdom through that of the New Kingdom .
Many of the adventurers in Africa who have been described as Mercenary were in fact ideologically motivated to support particular governments , and would not fight `` for the highest bidder '' .
An example of this was the British South Africa Police ( BSAP ) , a paramilitary , mounted infantry force formed by the British South Africa Company of Cecil Rhodes in 1889/1890 that evolved and continued until 1980 .
In 1960 and 1961 Mike Hoare worked as a mercenary commanding an English speaking unit called `` 4 Commando '' supporting a faction in Katanga , a province trying to break away from the newly independent Congo under the leadership of Moïse Tshombe .
Three more were executed : American Daniel Gearhart was sentenced to death for advertising himself as a mercenary in an American newspaper ; Andrew McKenzie and Costas Georgiou ( the self-styled `` Colonel Callan '' ) , who had both served in the British army , were sentenced to death for murder .
Executive Outcomes employees , Captains Daniele Zanata and Raif St Clair ( who was also involved in the aborted Seychelles Coup of 1981 ) , fought on behalf of the MPLA against UNITA in the 1990s in violation of the Lusaka Protocol .
In 2000 , the Australian Broadcasting Corporation 's ( ABC-TV ) international affairs program `` Foreign Correspondent '' broadcast a special report `` Sierra Leone : Soldiers of Fortune '' , focusing on former 32BN and Recce members who operated in Sierra Leone while serving for SANDF .
The BBC 's Newsnight television programme saw the financial records of Simon Mann 's companies showing large payments to Nick du Toit and also some $ 2m coming in -- though the source of this funding Mercenary say is largely untraceable .
Certain observers , however , speculate that Mercenary may be from Poland or Belarus .
A prominent example of these were the Flemings that fought during the English civil wars , known as the Anarchy or the Nineteen-Year Winter ( AD 1135 to 1154 ) , under the command of William of Ypres , who was King Stephen 's chief lieutenant from 1139 to 1154 and who was made Earl of Kent by Stephen .
During the later Middle Ages , Free Companies ( or Free Lances ) were formed , consisting of companies of Mercenary troops .
A class of mercenaries known as the Gallowglass dominated warfare in Ireland and Scotland between the 13th and 16th centuries .
The Stratioti or Stradioti ( Italian : Stradioti or Stradiotti ; Greek : Στρατιώτες , Stratiotes ; were Mercenary units from the Balkans recruited mainly by states of southern and central Europe from the 15th until the middle of the 18th century.The stradioti were recruited in Albania , Greece , Dalmatia , Serbia and later Cyprus .
According to Geoffrey Parker , `` Between 1618 and 1640 some 40,000 Scotsmen -- perhaps 15 % of the total adult males in the kingdom -- crossed to Europe to fight in the Thirty Years ' War '' .
During the reign of Louis XV there were also an Irish Scottish ( Garde Écossaise ) , a Swedish ( Royal-Suédois ) , an Italian ( Royal-Italien ) and a Walloon ( Horion-Liegeois ) regiments recruited outside the borders of France .
Mercenary is a person who takes part in an armed conflict , who is not a national or a party to the conflict and is `` motivated to take part in the hostilities essentially by the desire for private gain and , in fact , is promised , by or on behalf of a party to the conflict , material compensation substantially in excess of that promised or paid to combatants of similar ranks and functions in the armed forces of that Party '' .
Modern film scholars , noting Whale 's homosexuality and that of others involved in the production , have found a gay sensibility in Bride of Frankenstein , although a number of Whale 's associates have dismissed the idea .
Henry and Elizabeth , now married , are visited by Pretorius .
Sources report that Bela Lugosi and Claude Rains were considered , with varying degrees of seriousness , for the role of Frankenstein 's mentor , Pretorius ; others report that the role was created specifically for Ernest Thesiger .
Lanchester , who had accompanied husband Charles Laughton to Hollywood , had met with only moderate success while Laughton had found success with several films ( including Whale 's own The Old Dark House ) and had won an Academy Award for his role in The Private Life of Henry VIII .
My argument was that if the monster had any impact or charm , Bride of Frankenstein was because he was inarticulate -- this great , lumbering , inarticulate creature .
Joseph Breen , lead censor for the Hays office , objected to lines of dialogue in the originally submitted script in which Henry Frankenstein and his work were compared to that of God .
Censors in England and China objected to the scene in which the Monster gazes longingly upon the as yet unanimated body of Bride of Frankenstein , citing concerns that it looked like necrophilia .
While the Winnipeg Free Press thought that the electrical equipment might have been better suited to Buck Rogers , nonetheless the reviewer praised Bride of Frankenstein as `` exciting and sometimes morbidly gruesome '' , declaring that `` All who enjoyed Frankenstein will welcome his Bride as a worthy successor '' .
Time rated Bride of Frankenstein in Bride of Frankenstein `` ALL-TIME 100 Movies '' , in which critics Richard Corliss and Richard Schickel overruled the magazine 's original review to declare the film `` one of those rare sequels that is infinitely superior to Bride of Frankenstein source '' .
The monster -- the outsider -- is driven from his scene of domestic pleasure by two gun-toting rubes who happen upon this startling alliance and quickly , instinctively , proceed to destroy it '' , writes cultural critic Gary Morris for Bright Lights Film Journal .
The creation of the Bride scene , Morris continues , is `` Whale 's reminder to the audience -- his Hollywood bosses , peers , and everyone watching -- of the majesty and power of the homosexual creator '' .
Filmmaker Curtis Harrington , a friend and confidant of Whale 's , dismissed this as `` a younger critic 's evaluation .
The screenplay was adapted by Dudley Nichols and Hagar Wilde from a short story by Wilde which originally appeared in Collier 's Weekly magazine on April 10 , 1937 .
Nichols based the relationship between Susan and David partially on the off-screen love affair between Hepburn and director John Ford which Nichols had observed on the set of Mary of Scotland several years earlier .
When Slocum does not believe their story , Susan tells him they are members of the `` Leopard Gang '' ; she calls herself `` Swingin ' Door Susie '' , and David `` Jerry the Nipper '' ( Irene Dunne 's nickname for Grant 's character in The Awful Truth , which also featured Asta ) .
When RKO was unable to borrow Clark Gable , Spencer Tracy and Franchot Tone from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for Bringing Up Baby and Gunga Din was delayed , Hawks began looking for a new project .
Beginning at the Arthur Ranch shoot , Grant and Hepburn often ad-libbed their dialogue ; production was delayed as the two stars ruined shots by making each other laugh .
Bringing Up Baby cost for sets and props was only $ 5,000 over budget , but all actors ( including Nissa and Skippy ) were paid approximately double their initial salaries .
Hawks ' editor , George Hively , cut Bringing Up Baby during production and the final prints were made a few days after shooting ended .
Bringing Up Baby had two advance previews in January 1938 , where it received either As or A-pluses on audience-feedback cards .
Bringing Up Baby musical score is minimal , primarily Grant and Hepburn singing `` I Ca n't Give You Anything But Love , Baby '' .
In a Variety review `` Wear '' praised Bringing Up Baby , singling out Hawks ' pacing and direction , calling Hepburn 's performance `` one of her most invigorating screen characterizations '' and saying Grant `` performs his role to the hilt '' ; their only criticism was the length of the jail scene .
Howard Hughes bought RKO in 1941 , and sold it in 1959 ; when he sold the company , Hughes retained the copyright to six films ( including Bringing Up Baby ) .
The American Film Institute included the film on Bringing Up Baby list of the 100 greatest American films of all time , and Bringing Up Baby was named the fourteenth-funniest American film of all time .
In 1990 ( the registry 's second year ) , Bringing Up Baby was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry of the Library of Congress as `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
was based on the scene in which Grant 's coat and Hepburn 's dress are torn in Baby .
In Bringing Up Baby , the word `` gay '' was an ad-lib by Grant and not in any version of the original script .
All goes astray for them when Lucy 's father gets wind of his daughter 's whereabouts and in a drunken rage drags her back to their home to punish her .
As Cheng gazes at Lucy 's youthful face which , in spite of the circumstances , beams with innocence and even the slightest hint of a smile , Battling enters the room to make his escape .
Unlike Griffith 's more extravagant earlier works like The Birth of a Nation or Intolerance , Broken Blossoms is a small-scale film that uses controlled studio environments to create a more intimate effect .
In 1996 , Broken Blossoms was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
The original Broadway cast members were nearly all new to the stage ; Kennedy and Muir write that on the first day of rehearsal only one member had ever been on a stage before .
Carmen Jones has also been revived in London , running for a season in 1991 at London 's Old Vic and most recently in London 's Royal Festival Hall in the Southbank Centre in 2007 .
Parachute maker Carmen Jones makes a play for a `` fly boy '' Air Force man , Joe , who is in love with sweet Cindy Lou and about to marry her on a day pass when Carmen gets into a cat fight with another woman .
Even singer Harry Belafonte was dubbed ( by LeVern Hutcherson ) , and Dorothy Dandridge was dubbed by Marilyn Horne ( long before Horne became a famous singer ) .
As is the pattern throughout the book of Judges , the Israelites again turned away from God after 40 years of peace brought by Deborah 's victory over Canaan and were allowed to be oppressed by the neighboring Midianites and Amalekites .
Finally , Gideon Gideon killed Zebah and Zalmunna as justice for the death of Gideon brothers .
The account of Gideon 's war against Midian is a reflection of the struggle of Gideon own clan or tribe with the hostile Bedouins across the Jordan for the possession of the territory , mixed with reminiscences of tribal jealousies on the part of Ephraim .
The presence of lateral lines and the long rows of needle-like teeth show that most were fish-eaters .
The General Conference on Weights and Measures ( - General Conference on Weights and Measures ) is the senior of the three Inter-governmental organizations established in 1875 under the terms of the Metre Convention to represent the interests of member states .
The treaty , which also set up two further bodies , the International Committee for Weights and Measures ( - CIPM ) and the International Bureau of Weights and Measures ( - BIPM ) , was drawn up to coordinate international metrology and to coordinate the development of the metric system .
This number grew to 21 in 1900 , 32 in 1950 , and 49 in 2001 , there are 56 Member States and 37 Associate States and Economies of the General Conference ( with year of partnership between brackets ) : Member States ( 1877 ) ( 1947 ) ( 1875 ) ( 1875 ) ( 1921 ) ( 1911 ) ( 1907 ) ( 1908 ) ( 1977 ) ( 2012 ) ( 2008 ) ( 1922 ) ( 1875 ) ( 1954 ) ( 1962 ) ( 1923 ) ( 1875 ) ( 1875 ) ( 2001 ) ( 1925 ) ( 1957 ) ( 1960 ) ( 1975 ) ( 1925 ) ( 1985 ) ( 1875 ) ( 1885 ) ( 2008 ) ( 2010 ) ( 2001 ) ( 1890 ) ( 1929 ) ( 1991 ) ( 1875 ) ( 1973 ) ( 1925 ) ( 1876 ) ( 1884 ) ( 1875 ) ( 2011 ) ( 2001 ) ( 1994 ) ( 1922 ) ( 1964 ) ( 1959 ) ( 1875 ) ( 1875 ) ( 1875 ) ( 1912 ) ( 2012 ) ( 1875 ) ( 1884 ) ( 1878 ) ( 1908 ) ( 1879 ) Notes Associates At its 21st meeting ( October 1999 ) , General Conference on Weights and Measures created the category of `` associate '' for those states not yet members of the BIPM and for economic unions .
General Conference on Weights and Measures is the senior of the three Inter-governmental organizations established in 1875 under the terms of the Metre Convention to represent the interests of member states .
If γ is a rectifiable curve in U which does not meet any of the ak , and whose start point equals Residue theorem endpoint , then If γ is a positively oriented simple closed curve , I ( γ , ak ) = 1 if ak is in the interior of γ , and 0 if not , so with the sum over those k for which ak is inside γ .
This winding number is an integer which intuitively measures how many times the curve γ winds around the point ak ; it is positive if γ moves in a counter clockwise ( `` mathematically positive '' ) manner around ak and 0 if γ does n't move around ak at all .
Vernation ( from vernal meaning spring , since that is when leaves spring forth in temperate regions ) is the formation of new leaves or fronds .
As the fern frond is formed , it is tightly curled so that the tender growing tip of the frond ( and each subdivision of the frond ) is protected within a coil .
At this stage Vernation is called a crozier ( after the shepherd 's crook ) or fiddlehead ( after the scrollwork at the top of a violin ) .
In 1993 , this film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
Actinopterygii , or ray-finned fishes , constitute a class or subclass of the bony fishes .
The ray-finned fishes are so called because Actinopterygii possess lepidotrichia or `` fin rays '' , Actinopterygii fins being webs of skin supported by bony or horny spines ( `` rays '' ) , as opposed to the fleshy , lobed fins that characterize the class Sarcopterygii which also , however , possess lepidotrichia .
Neopterygii , in turn , have been divided into the infraclasses Holostei and Teleostei .
The listing below follows FishBase with notes when this differs from Nelson and ITIS .
Just when she is about to give him his change , a man gets into a nearby car and drives away , making her think the Tramp has driven off .
The next morning , having sobered up again and planning to leave for a cruise , the millionaire once more tosses out the Tramp .
The Little Tramp smiles shyly at the girl , clutching the flower to his face , his eyes full of love and hope , as City Lights ends .
Chaplin 's feature The Circus , released in 1928 , was his last film before the motion picture industry embraced sound recording and brought the silent movie era to a close .
Chaplin was dismissive about `` talkies '' and told a reporter that he 'd `` give the talkies three years , that 's all '' .
After the success of The Circus , Chaplin had originally wanted to make City Lights about a circus clown who goes blind and has to conceal his handicap from his young daughter by pretending that his inability to see were pratfalls .
Weissman also compared many of City Lights sets with locations from Chaplin 's real childhood such as the statue in the opening scene resembling St. Mark 's Church on Kennington Park Road and Chaplin referring to the waterfront set as the Thames Embarkment .
Filming for City Lights officially began on December 27 , 1928 , after Chaplin and Carr had worked on the script for almost an entire year .
Filming the scene continued until February 1929 and again for ten days in early April before Chaplin put the scene aside to be filmed at a later time .
During this part of shooting , construction was being done at Chaplin Studios because the city of Los Angeles had decided to widen La Brea Avenue and Chaplin was forced to move several buildings away from the road .
When the Tramp befriends the millionaire and gains some luxuries , he still does not forget his earlier life , as represented in the scene where the Tramp chases after a discarded cigarette in a sportscar .
City Lights next premiered at the George M. Cohan Theater in New York , and at the Dominion in London in February .
In 1992 , the Library of Congress selected City Lights for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
In 1990 , Sullivan 's Travels was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
In return for her kindness to him , Sullivan gives her a lift in his car , without telling his servants ; Sullivan's Travels report the `` theft '' and the pair are apprehended by the police .
The film as released opens with a dedication : To the memory of those who made us laugh : the motley mountebanks , the clowns , the buffoons , in all times and in all nations , whose efforts have lightened our burden a little , this picture is affectionately dedicated.This was originally intended to be spoken by Sullivan .
Location shooting took place in Canoga Park , San Marino , Castaic and at Lockheed Air Terminal .
Reportedly , Lake was disliked by some of her co-stars ; McCrea refused to work with her again , turning down a lead role in I Married a Witch , and Fredric March , who got the part , did n't get along with her as well .
When the film was released , the U.S. government 's Office of Censorship declined to approve Sullivan's Travels for export overseas during wartime , because of the `` long sequence showing life in a prison chain gang which is most objectionable because of the brutality and inhumanity with which the prisoners are treated '' .
Although the review in the New York Times called Sullivan's Travels `` the most brilliant picture yet this year '' and praised Sturges 's mix of escapist fun with underlying significance , the Hollywood Reporter said that it lacked the `` down to earth quality and sincerity which made Sturges 's other three pictures a joy to behold '' and that `` Sturges ... fails to heed the message that writer Sturges proves in his script .
American Film Institute lists On November 9 , 1942 , Lux Radio Theatre broadcast a radio adaptation of Sullivan 's Travels with Ralph Bellamy in the lead role and Veronica Lake reprising her role .
The scene where the prisoners are taken to watch a cartoon takes place in a Southern African-American church ; Sullivan's Travels notably treats the African-American characters there with a level of respect unusual in films of the period.I want to congratulate and thank you for the church sequence in Sullivan 's Travels .
is shown to be `` Sinclair Beckstein '' , which is an amalgamation of the names of authors Upton Sinclair , Sinclair Lewis , and John Steinbeck , all of whom wrote socially conscious fiction .
Civilization (film) was a big-budget spectacle that was compared to both Birth of a Nation and the paintings of Jean-François Millet .
Civilization (film) included music composed by Victor Schertzinger and depicted a peaceful country home , with hills in the distance , a stream and clouds floating peacefully through the sky .
If the awful trail of battle stretches vividly through the scenes of the narrative , Civilization (film) is in the hope that a shocked and appalled world may henceforth devote Civilization (film) more earnestly in the cause of peace .
Many hundreds of persons took part , and Civilization (film) is said that the film contains some of the most beautiful photography ever shown on the screen '' .
Civilization (film) included large scale battle scenes , scenes of naval battles , trench warfare , aerial battles , and the resulting devastation .
In Indiana , a reviewer emphasized the film 's spectacular effects and Civilization (film) depiction of Jesus : '' ` If Christ Should Visit Verdun ' would make a good subtitle for ` Civilization , ' for that is really Civilization (film) theme .
... Pictorially , and in the spectacular effects that can be achieved within range of the camera , as well as in the sheer beauty of many of Civilization (film) scenes , Civilization (film) is a masterpiece indeed .
Days of peace in the little town of Wrepryd , which is Civilization (film) locale , and in the peaceful country thereabout , might have been posed by the artist Millet , so strikingly do Civilization (film) stand out '' .
As far north as Fairbanks , Alaska , a reviewer wrote that , if Civilization (film) had been shown to the people of Europe before the war started there would have been no war : '' ` Civilization (film) ' is worth $ 1.50 today , tomorrow , or at any time .
Civilization (film) is a masterpiece -- a picture that grips and thrills .
... After seeing ` Civilization (film) ' one can truthfully say that had Henry Ford produced a film like this one that Ince directed , and sent it broadcast throughout the civilized world as an argument against war , he would have accomplished more for universal peace than did his famous ` peace expedition ' .
He would have reached the great mass of people who have but a faint recollection of the horrors of war , and would have showed them the pain and the suffering and the sorrow that war brings with Civilization (film) .
Henry Christeen Warnack in the Los Angeles Times was troubled by the depiction of The Christ and wrote that the film `` is not daring , Civilization (film) is only poor taste '' .
He opined that Civilization (film) was offensive to the beliefs of Christians , Jews and atheists alike : `` The play will ... be popular with everybody with the exception of three classes : It will probably prove offensive to Christians because they are likely to think of it as irreverent ; to the Hebrew it will seem mystical and exaggerated ; the non-church-goer will find it absurd and undramatic .
Warnack concluded his review as follows : `` This violation of good taste and this error in judgment belong to the misconception of the story ... Realizing the vast sum of money and the huge investment of talent and good faith that have been expended in this pretentious film , Civilization (film) is with deep regret that I am compelled to report Civilization (film) as a disappointment '' .
In 1999 , Civilization (film) was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
Civilization (film) is a big-budget spectacle that was compared to both Birth of a Nation and the paintings of Jean-François Millet .
The narrator 's father , Atticus Finch , has served as a moral hero for many readers and as a model of integrity for lawyers .
One critic explains the novel 's impact by writing , `` In the twentieth century , To Kill a Mockingbird is probably the most widely read book dealing with race in America , and To Kill a Mockingbird protagonist , Atticus Finch , the most enduring fictional image of racial heroism '' .
Instead of a `` quick and merciful death '' , Reader 's Digest Condensed Books chose the book for reprinting in part , which gave To Kill a Mockingbird a wide readership immediately .
The adults of To Kill a Mockingbird are hesitant to talk about Boo and , for many years , few have seen him .
Atticus establishes that the accusers -- Mayella and her father , Bob Ewell , the town drunk -- are lying .
While standing on the Radley porch , Scout imagines life from Boo 's perspective and regrets that To Kill a Mockingbird never repaid him for the gifts he had given them .
Both Lee and Capote were atypical children : both loved to read .
In 1960 , Capote and Lee traveled to Kansas together to investigate the multiple murders that were the basis for Capote 's nonfiction novel In Cold Blood .
The strongest element of style noted by critics and reviewers is Lee 's talent for narration , which in an early review in Time was called `` tactile brilliance '' .
Writing about Lee 's style and use of humor in a tragic story , scholar Jacqueline Tavernier-Courbin states : `` Laughter ... exposes the gangrene under the beautiful surface but also by demeaning it ; one can hardly ... be controlled by what one is able to laugh at '' .
The grotesque and near-supernatural qualities of Boo Radley and his house , and the element of racial injustice involving Tom Robinson contribute to the aura of the Gothic in the novel .
Scout 's Aunt Alexandra attributes To Kill a Mockingbird inhabitants ' faults and advantages to genealogy ( families that have gambling streaks and drinking streaks ) , and the narrator sets the action and characters amid a finely detailed background of the Finch family history and the history of To Kill a Mockingbird .
The South To Kill a Mockingbird , with To Kill a Mockingbird traditions and taboos , seems to drive the plot more than the characters .
Tom Robinson 's trial was juried by poor white farmers who convicted him despite overwhelming evidence of his innocence , as more educated and moderate white townspeople supported the jury 's decision .
He is also alone when he faces a group intending to lynch Tom Robinson and once more in the courthouse during Tom 's trial .
In a statement that foreshadows Atticus ' motivation for defending Tom Robinson and describes Mrs. Dubose , who is determined to break herself of a morphine addiction , Atticus tells Jem that courage is `` when you 're licked before you begin but you begin anyway and you see it through no matter what '' .
Having walked Boo home after he saves their lives , Scout stands on the Radley porch and considers the events of the previous three years from Boo 's perspective .
By balancing the masculine influences of Atticus and Jem with the feminine influences of Calpurnia and Miss Maudie , one scholar writes , `` Lee gradually demonstrates that Scout is becoming a feminist in the South , for with the use of first-person narration , she indicates that Scout / Jean Louise still maintains the ambivalence about being a Southern lady she possessed as a child '' .
Johnson notes that even in Scout and Jem 's childhood world , compromises and treaties are struck with each other by spitting on one 's palm and laws are discussed by Atticus and his children : is To Kill a Mockingbird right that Bob Ewell hunts and traps out of season ?
Many social codes are broken by people in symbolic courtrooms : Mr. Dolphus Raymond has been exiled by society for taking a black woman as his common-law wife and having interracial children ; Mayella Ewell is beaten by her father in punishment for kissing Tom Robinson ; by being turned into a non-person , Boo Radley receives a punishment far greater than any court could have given him .
Writer Edwin Bruell summarized the symbolism when he wrote in 1964 , '' ` To kill a mockingbird ' is to kill that which is innocent and harmless -- like Tom Robinson '' .
A 1991 survey by the Book of the Month Club and the Library of Congress Center for the Book found that To Kill a Mockingbird was rated behind only the Bible in books that are `` most often cited as making a difference '' .
Jane Sullivan in the Sydney Morning Herald agrees , stating that the book `` still rouses fresh and horrified indignation '' as To Kill a Mockingbird examines morality , a topic that has recently become unfashionable .
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie writing in The Guardian states that Lee , rare among American novelists , writes with `` a fiercely progressive ink , in which there is nothing inevitable about racism and To Kill a Mockingbird very foundation is open to question '' , comparing her to William Faulkner , who wrote about racism as an inevitability .
Literary critic Rosemary Goring in Scotland 's The Herald notes the connections between Lee and Jane Austen , stating To Kill a Mockingbird central theme , that `` one 's moral convictions are worth fighting for , even at the risk of being reviled '' is eloquently discussed .
Morris Dees of the Southern Poverty Law Center cites Atticus Finch as the reason he became a lawyer , and Richard Matsch , the federal judge who presided over the Timothy McVeigh trial , counts Atticus as a major judicial influence .
The word ` Nigger ' is used 48 times in the novel ... We believe that the English Language Arts curriculum in Nova Scotia must enable all students to feel comfortable with ideas , feelings and experiences presented without fear of humiliation ... To Kill a Mockingbird is clearly a book that no longer meets these goals and therefore must no longer be used for classroom instruction .
However , the novel is cited as a major reason for the success of civil rights in the 1960s , that To Kill a Mockingbird `` arrived at the right moment to help the South and the nation grapple with the racial tensions ( of ) the accelerating civil rights movement '' .
Civil Rights leader Andrew Young comments that part of the book 's effectiveness is that To Kill a Mockingbird `` inspires hope in the midst of chaos and confusion '' and by using racial epithets portrays the reality of the times in which To Kill a Mockingbird was set .
Childress states the novel `` gives white Southerners a way to understand the racism that they 've been brought up with and to find another way .
Most white people in the South were not throwing bombs and causing havoc ... I think the book really helped them come to understand what was wrong with the system in the way that any number of treatises could never do , because To Kill a Mockingbird was popular art , because To Kill a Mockingbird was told from a child 's point of view '' .
Lee 's childhood friend , author Truman Capote , wrote on the dust jacket of the first edition , `` Someone rare has written this very fine first novel : a writer with the liveliest sense of life , and the warmest , most authentic sense of humor .
To Kill a Mockingbird dredges up things in their own lives , their interactions across racial lines , legal encounters , and childhood .
In his remarks , Bush stated , `` One reason To Kill a Mockingbird succeeded is the wise and kind heart of the author , which comes through on every page ... To Kill a Mockingbird has influenced the character of our country for the better .
Author Albert Murray said of the relationship of the town to the novel ( and the annual performance ) : `` To Kill a Mockingbird becomes part of the town ritual , like the religious underpinning of Mardi Gras .
David Lister in The Independent states that Lee 's refusal to speak to reporters makes them desire to interview her all the more , and her silence `` makes Bob Dylan look like a media tart '' .
To Kill a Mockingbird is Jem and Scout .
Cologne : From the Diary of Ray and Esther is a 1939 short documentary film which deals with the German-American community on the eve of World War II .
Cologne: From the Diary of Ray and Esther is a 1939 short documentary film which deals with the German-American community on the eve of World War II .
In 2022 , an explosion of an experimental hyperspace gateway severely damages the Moon , resulting in a debris ring and meteor bombardments that eradicate a large portion of the Earth 's population .
The three main classes of vehicles present are ground vehicles , air vehicles and space vehicles .
The crew is made up of five main characters : Spike Spiegel , an exiled hitman of the ruthless Red Dragon Syndicate ; Jet Black , a former ISSP officer who retired following a mob hit that cost him his arm ; Faye Valentine , an amnesiac con artist who awakened in the future after a lengthy period of cryogenic hibernation ; `` Radical '' Edward , a barefooted preteen girl who is a prolific computer hacker ; and Ein , a hyper-intelligent , genetically-engineered Welsh Corgi dog .
Notable examples of such include Sunrise 's Outlaw Star and Madhouse 's Trigun .
The leader of the creative team was director Shinichiro Watanabe , most notable at the time for directing Macross Plus , the futuristic adventure anime OVA series , and .
Certainly not as pristine a future we would see in other series or films , Cowboy Bebop decides to deliver a future that closely reflects that of our own time .
Unlike many anime titles , viewers were n't expected to have knowledge of Asian culture -- character names , signs , and the like were primarily in English to begin with -- or have seen any other anime series prior .
Susan J. Napier argues , in her book , that anime increasingly `` exists at a nexus point in global culture ... an amorphous new media territory that crosses and intermingles national boundaries '' .
In Stray Dog Strut the final fight between Spike and Hakim is influenced by Bruce Lee 's Game of Death while in Waltz for Venus , Spike 's kung fu lesson is similar to a scene from Lee 's Enter the Dragon .
Part 1 of the Blu-Ray collection will be released on July 29 , 2013 , while Part 2 and the standard DVD Complete Collection will be released on September 23 , 2013 .
The first manga series titled was written and illustrated by Cain Kuga , distributed in North America by Tokyopop and was collected into two volumes .
The submitted script was sent back for rewrite to reduce the cost and little has been heard about Cowboy Bebop since an interview with producer Joshua Long on October 15 , 2010 ; the project currently languishes in development hell .
Christina Carpenter of T.H.E.M Anime Reviews rated the series five stars and said the series has `` sophistication and subtlety that is practically one-of-a-kind '' , touting Cowboy Bebop as a masterpiece that `` puts most anime ... and Hollywood , to shame '' .
A 2004 poll in Newtype USA , the US edition of the Japanese magazine Newtype , asked Cowboy Bebop readers to rank the `` Top 25 Anime Titles of All Time '' ; Cowboy Bebop placed second on the list ( after Neon Genesis Evangelion ) , placing it as one of the most socially relevant and influential anime series ever created .
The American Anime magazine Anime Insider ( No. 50 , November 2007 ) ranked the 50 Best Anime by compiling lists of industry regulars and magazine staff , with Cowboy Bebop ranked as 1 of all time .
On May 16 , 2006 , IGN listed Cowboy Bebop in Cowboy Bebop article `` Top Ten Anime Themes and Soundtracks of All-Time '' , as the number one soundtrack : `` Yoko Kanno strikes again .
Watanabe added that ending production and `` to quit while we 're ahead when people still want more '' is more `` in keeping with the Bebop spirit '' .
Cops (film) is a 1922 comedy short silent film about a young man ( Buster Keaton ) who accidentally gets on the bad side of the entire Los Angeles Police Department during a parade , and is chased all over town .
Advertising executive Roger O. Thornhill ( Cary Grant ) is mistaken for `` George Kaplan '' and kidnapped by Valerian ( Adam Williams ) and Licht ( Robert Ellenstein ) .
He is unable to get the authorities or even his mother ( Jessie Royce Landis ) to believe what happened , especially when a woman at Townsend 's residence says he got drunk at her dinner party ; she also remarks that Townsend is a United Nations diplomat .
Eve slips and clings desperately to the steep mountainside .
, screenwriter William Goldman , commenting on North by Northwest , insists that it was Lehman who created North by Northwest and that many of Hitchcock 's ideas were not used .
He speculated that North by Northwest could be called `` The Man in Lincoln 's Nose '' ( Lehman 's version is that it was `` The Man on Lincoln 's Nose '' ) or even `` The Man who Sneezed in Lincoln 's Nose , '' though he probably felt the latter was insulting to his adopted America .
The filming of North by Northwest took place between August and December 1958 with the exception of a few re-takes that were shot in April 1959 .
The cropduster sequence , meant to take place in northern Indiana , was shot on location on Garces Highway ( 155 ) near the towns of Wasco and Delano , north of Bakersfield in Kern County , California .
Years later , in a show at the Pompidou Center called `` Hitchcock and Art : Fatal Coincidences '' , an aerial shot of Grant in the cornfield , with a `` road cutting straight through the cornrows to the edge of the screen '' , was said to draw on Léon Spilliaert 's `` Le Paquebot ou L'Estran '' , which features `` alternating strips of sand and ocean blue bands stretched to the edge of the canvas '' .
A panel of fashion experts convened by GQ in 2006 said the gray suit worn by Cary Grant throughout almost the entire film was the best suit in film history , and the most influential on men 's style , stating that North by Northwest has since been copied for Tom Cruise 's character in Collateral and Ben Affleck 's character in Paycheck .
In 1995 , North by Northwest was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the United States Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
American Film Institute recognition North by Northwest title is reported to have been the influence for the name of the popular annual live music festival South by Southwest in Austin , Texas , started in 1987 , with the name idea coming from Louis Black , editor and co-founder of the local alternative weekly The Austin Chronicle , as a play on the Hitchcock film title .
The Simpsons episode `` Treehouse of Horror XX '' contains several scenes from the film as well as other Hitchcock films in North by Northwest first segment , `` Dial 'M ' for Murder or Press ' In the NCIS episode `` Enemy on the Hill '' ( Season 9 , episode 4 ) , the prime suspect being pursued is named `` George Kaplan '' and appears to exist only on paper .
In the Rockford Files season 4 episode `` South by Southeast , '' Jim Rockford is mistaken for a federal agent and sent on a mission to Mexico despite protesting his identity .
Intercutting ( cross-cutting ) between still tableaux of the poor in the bread line and the lavish , active parties of the wealthy speculator somewhat anticipates the collision montage which became a hallmark of the politically charged Soviet cinema a decade or so later .
In 1994 , A Corner in Wheat was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
A play , written by Miller and Robert Rossen based on the novel , was first shown in Philadelphia and then twice at Broadway 's Eugene O'Neill Theatre on February 22 and 23 , 1960 , featuring Raymond St. Jacques , James Earl Jones , Calvin Lockhart , Hilda Simms , and others .
The Cool World (film) helped launch Antonio Fargas , Clarence Williams III , Carl Lee , and Gloria Foster , who married Williams three years later .
In 1994 , The Cool World (film) was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
An incremental formulation of the sieve generates primes indefinitely ( i.e. without an upper bound ) by interleaving the generation of primes with the generation of Sieve of Eratosthenes multiples ( so that primes can be found in gaps between the multiples ) , where the multiples of each prime p are generated directly , by counting up from the square of the prime in increments of p ( or 2p for odd primes ) .
The segmented version of Sieve of Eratosthenes , with basic optimizations , uses operations and bits of memory .
Czechoslovakia 1968 won the Academy Award for Documentary Short Subject and in 1997 , was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress having been identified as `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
In 1991 , David Holzman's Diary was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
Clement of Alexandria secret works , which exist only in fragments , suggest that Clement of Alexandria was also familiar with pre-Christian Jewish esotericism and Gnosticism .
In one of Clement of Alexandria works Clement of Alexandria argued that Greek philosophy had its origin among non-Greeks , claiming that both Plato and Pythagoras were taught by Egyptian scholars .
Clement , following Plato ( Republic 4:441 ) , divides life into three elements : character , actions and passions .
Despite its explicitly Christian nature , Clement 's work draws on Stoic philosophy and pagan literature ; Homer alone is cited over sixty times in the work .
Photius , writing in the 9th century , found various text appended to manuscripts of the seven canonical books , which lead Daniel Heinsius to suggest that the original eighth book is lost , and Clement of Alexandria identified the text purported to be from the eighth book as fragments of the Hypopotoses .
Faith is voluntary , and the decision to believe is a crucial fundamental step in becoming closer to God .
These cover Clement 's celestial hierarchy , a complex schema in which the universe is headed by the Face of God , below which lie seven protoctists , followed by archangels , angels and humans .
If authentic , its main significance would be in its relating that the apostle Mark came to Alexandria from Rome and there wrote a more spiritual gospel , which Clement of Alexandria entrusted to the church in Alexandria on Clement of Alexandria death : if genuine , the letter pushes back the tradition related by Eusebius connecting Mark with Alexandria by a century .
As one of the earliest of the Church fathers whose works have survived , Clement of Alexandria is the subject of a significant amount of recent academic work , mainly focusing on the relationship between Clement of Alexandria thought and non-Christian philosophy and Clement of Alexandria influence on Origen .
The term `` lily '' has in the past been applied to numerous different flowering plants , often with only superficial resemblance to the true lily , including lotus , ranunculus , tulip , iris , anemone , agapanthus , zantedeschia , daylily , and others .
But a few species which distribute in hot summer and mild winter area ( Lilium candidum , Lilium catesbaei , Lilium longiflorum ) lose leaves and remain relatively short dormant in Summer or Autumn , sprout from Autumn to winter , forming dwarf stem bearing a basal rosette of leaves until accept enough chilling requirement , the stem begins to elongate while warming .
This is known to be so especially for L. longiflorum though other Lilium and the unrelated Hemerocallis can also cause the same symptoms .
They are best planted in a south-facing , slightly sloping aspect , in sun or part shade , at a depth 2 1/2 times the height of the bulb ( except L. candidum which should be planted at the surface ) .
Taxonomical division in sections follows the classical division of Comber , species acceptance follows World Checklist of Liliaceae , the taxonomy of section Pseudolirium is from the Flora of North America , the taxonomy of Section Liriotypus is given in consideration of Resetnik et al. 2007 , the taxonomy of Chinese species ( various sections ) follows the Flora of China and the taxonomy of Section Archelirion follows Nishikawa et al. as does the taxonomy of Section Archelirion .
Klaatu escapes and lodges at a boarding house , assuming the alias `` Mr. Carpenter '' , The Day the Earth Stood Still he finds on the cleaners tag on the suit he `` borrowed '' .
Klaatu enters and adds a key mathematical equation to an advanced problem on the professor 's blackboard , and then leaves his contact information with the suspicious housekeeper who attempts to rub out the equation with an eraser although is told not to by Klaatu .
Well-known broadcast journalists of The Day the Earth Stood Still time , H. V. Kaltenborn , Elmer Davis , Drew Pearson and Gabriel Heatter , appeared and/or were heard as themselves .
In a 1995 interview , producer Julian Blaustein explained that Joseph Breen , The Day the Earth Stood Still censor installed by the Motion Picture Association of America at the Twentieth Century Fox studios , balked at the portrayal of Klaatu 's resurrection and limitless power .
Laffoley quotes Wright and his attempt in designing the exterior : '' ... to imitate an experimental substance that I have heard about which acts like living tissue .
The robot Gort , who serves Klaatu , was played by the naturally tall Lock Martin , who worked as an usher at Graumann 's Chinese Theater and stood seven feet tall .
In 1995 , The Day the Earth Stood Still was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
In 1998 , this film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
The Dani people , whom Gardner identifies mysteriously as `` a mountain people , '' believe that there was once a great race between a bird and a snake , which was to determine the lives of human beings .
The apparent continuity stems from the post-synchronized sound , and in fact all the sound in Dead Birds (1964 film) is post-synched .
Mike is the no-nonsense , serious but unassuming leader , Steven the loving , near-groom , pecked at by his mother for not wearing a scarf with his tuxedo and Nick is the quiet , introspective man who loves hunting because , he likes '' ... the trees ... the way the trees are ... '' The recurring theme of `` one shot '' , which is how Mike prefers to take down a deer , is introduced .
Director and co-writer Michael Cimino , writer Deric Washburn , producers Barry Spikings and Michael Deeley all have different versions of how the film came to be .
When Washburn was finished , he says , Cimino and Joann Carelli , an associate producer on The Deer Hunter who would go on to produce two more of Cimino 's films , took him to dinner at a cheap restaurant off the Sunset Strip .
In the original script , the roles of Merle ( later renamed Mike ) and Nick were reversed in the last half of the film .
Deeley felt the story credits for Garfinkle and Redeker `` did them less than justice '' .
While appearing later in the film , the first scenes shot upon arrival in Thailand are the hospital sequences between Walken and the military doctor .
And it was suggested that De Niro , Christopher Walken , and John Savage were too old to have enlisted for Vietnam ( Savage , the youngest of the three , was 28 ) .
In her review , Pauline Kael wrote , `` The Vietcong are treated in the standard inscrutable-evil Oriental style of the Japanese in the Second World War movies ... The impression a viewer gets is that if we did some bad things there we did them ruthlessly but impersonally ; the Vietcong were cruel and sadistic '' .
I did n't realize how badly we 'd behaved to the Vietnamese people ... '' Producer Deeley , on the other hand , was quick to defend Cimino 's comments on the nature and motives of the film : `` The Deer Hunter was n't really ` about ' Vietnam .
The final scene in which all the main characters gather and sing `` God Bless America '' became a subject of heated debate among critics when the film was released .
Pauline Kael of The New Yorker wrote a positive review with some reservations : `` The Deer Hunter is a small minded film with greatness in it ... with an enraptured view of common life ... but enraging , because , despite The Deer Hunter ambitiousness and scale , The Deer Hunter has no more moral intelligence than the Eastwood action pictures '' .
Academy Award-winning film director Miloš Forman and Academy Award-nominated actor Mickey Rourke consider The Deer Hunter to be one of the greatest films of all time .
Sarris added , `` I was never taken in ... Hence , the stupidity and incoherence in Heaven 's Gate came as no surprise since very much the same stupidity and incoherence had been amply evident in The Deer Hunter '' .
In his book Final Cut : Dreams and Disaster in the Making of Heaven 's Gate , Steven Bach wrote , `` critics seemed to feel obliged to go on the record about The Deer Hunter , to demonstrate that their critical credentials were un-besmirched by having been , as Sarris put it , ` taken in ' '' .
Citizen Kane , Some Like The Deer Hunter Hot , , The Godfather Part II ... all these are considered to be classics of such universally accepted stature ... At the risk of being thrown out of the ` respectable film critics ' circle , may I take this opportunity to declare officially that in my opinion The Deer Hunter is one of the worst films ever made , a rambling self indulgent , self aggrandizing barf-fest steeped in manipulatively racist emotion , and notable primarily for The Deer Hunter farcically melodramatic tone which is pitched somewhere between shrieking hysteria and somnambulist somberness '' .
In 1996 , The Deer Hunter was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
The Region 2 version of The Deer Hunter , released in the UK and Japan , features a commentary track from director Michael Cimino .
Iris (plant) expand from their narrow base , which in some of the rhizomatous irises has a `` beard '' ( a tuft of short upright extensions growing in Iris (plant) midline ) , into a broader expanded portion ( `` limb '' ) , often adorned with veining , lines or dots .
Iris (plant) is of interest as an example of the relation between flowering plants and pollinating insects .
The shape of the flower and the position of the pollen-receiving and stigmatic surfaces on the outer petals form a landing-stage for a flying insect , which in probing for nectar , will first come into contact with the perianth , then with the stigmatic stamens in one whorled surface which is borne on an ovary formed of three carpels .
Rodionenko removed some groups ( particularly the bulbous irises ) to separate genera , but even if this is done the genus remains large and several subgenera , sections and/or subsections are recognised within Iris (plant) .
Compared with other irises the cushion varieties are scantily furnished with narrow sickle-shaped leaves and the flowers are usually borne singly on the stalks ; Iris (plant) are often very dark and in some almost blackish .
Iris (plant) is also a catch-all term for the Japanese Iris (plant) proper ( hanashōbu ) , the Blood iris ( I. sanguinea , ayame ) and the Rabbitear iris ( I. laevigata , kakitsubata ) .
In this time , the fats and oils inside the roots undergo degradation and oxidation , which produces many fragrant compounds that are valuable in perfumery .
Larger Blue Flag ( I. versicolor ) and other species often grown in gardens and widely hybridized contain elevated amounts of the toxic glycoside iridin .
Iris (plant) also conveys images of lost love and silent grief , for young girls were led into the afterlife by Iris .
The red fleur-de-lis in the coat-of-arms of Florence ( Italy ) descends from the white iris which is native to Florence and which grew even in Iris (plant) city walls .
This white iris , displayed against a red background , became the symbol of Florence until the Medici family , to signal a change in political power , reversed the colors making the white one red and setting in motion a centuries-long breeding program to hybridize Iris (plant) .
Furthermore , the fleur-de-lis is the almost-universal symbol of Scouting and one of the symbols adopted by the sorority , Kappa Kappa Gamma .
Detour (1945 film) ( 1945 ) is a film noir thriller that stars Tom Neal and Ann Savage .
In 1992 , Detour (1945 film) was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
Back in the apartment , Vera gets drunk , and Detour (1945 film) begin arguing .
As detailed in Savage Detours : The Life and Work of Ann Savage , great care was taken during the post-production of Detour (1945 film) .
Erdody took extra pains to underscore Vera 's introduction with a sympathetic theme , giving the character a light musical shading in contrast to her razor-sharp dialogue , and Detour (1945 film) ferocious delivery by Ann Savage .
Detour (1945 film) was well received upon initial release with positive reviews in the Los Angeles Times , Variety and The Hollywood Reporter , among many others .
Ann Savage made live appearances with Detour (1945 film) from 1985 to 2006 , increasing public visibility as critical interest and analysis continued to grow .
`` This movie from Hollywood 's poverty row , shot in six days , filled with technical errors and ham-handed narrative , starring a man who can only pout and a woman who can only sneer , should have faded from sight soon after Detour (1945 film) was released in 1945 .
`` Using unknown actors and filming with no more than three minimal sets , a sole exterior ( a used-car lot ) to represent Los Angeles , a few stock shots , and some shaky back-projection , Ulmer conjures up a black , paranoid vision , totally untainted by glamour , of shabby characters trapped in a spiral of irrational guilt '' '' .
Detour (1945 film) is a film noir thriller that stars Tom Neal and Ann Savage .
A drunk called Da Mayor ( Davis ) is constantly trying to win both the approval and affection of the neighborhood matron , Mother Sister ( Dee ) , who watches the neighborhood 's activity from her brownstone .
Mookie and Pino begin arguing over which race is better , blacks or Italians , which leads to a series of scenes in which the characters , addressing the camera , spew a variety of racial insults .
Do the Right Thing yell at each other , threatening , until Sal , in a fit of frustration and anger , calls Radio Raheem a `` nigger , '' then snaps and destroys Radio Raheem 's boombox with a baseball bat .
Meanwhile , Smiley wanders back into the smoldering restaurant , past Radio Raheem 's burning boombox , and as `` Fight the Power '' plays , he hangs a picture of Malcolm X and Martin Luther King , Jr. on what 's left of Sal 's `` Wall of Fame '' .
On the Hot R&B / Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks chart , the Perri track `` Feel So Good '' reached the fifty-first spot , while Public Enemy 's `` Fight the Power '' reached number twenty , and Guy 's `` My Fantasy '' went all the way to the top spot .
The Docks of New York ( 1928 ) is a silent drama film directed by Josef von Sternberg and starring George Bancroft , Betty Compson , and Olga Baclanova .
In 1998 , the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
Many sources , however , assumed this to be a typographical error and swiftly `` corrected '' Dont Look Back to Do n't Look Back ( i.e. , with an apostrophe in the first word ) .
Today Sozopol is one of the major seaside resorts in the country , known for the Apollonia art and film festival ( which takes place in early September ) that is named after one of the town 's ancient names .
One of the most active and popular mayors had been Nikola Kaloyanov , who initiated numerous infrastructure changes to modernize the town in the 70s .
The genes that produce photopigments are carried on the X chromosome ; if some of these genes are missing or damaged , Color blindness will be expressed in males with a higher probability than in females because males only have one X chromosome ( in females , a functional gene on only one of the two X chromosomes is sufficient to yield the needed photopigments ) .
Individuals of Northern European ancestry , as many as 8 percent of men and 0.5 percent of women experience the common form of red-green color blindness .
Because this is an X-linked trait an estimated 2 -- 3 % of women have a 4th color cone and can be considered tetrachromats although it is not clear that this provides an advantage in color discrimination .
About 8 percent of males , but only 0.5 percent of females , are color blind in some way or another , whether Color blindness is one color , a color combination , or another mutation .
The reason males are at a greater risk of inheriting an X linked mutation is that males only have one X chromosome ( XY , with the Y chromosome carrying altogether different genes than the X chromosome ) , and females have two ( XX ) ; if a woman inherits a normal X chromosome in addition to the one that carries the mutation , she will not display the mutation .
If 5 % of variants of a given gene are defective , the probability of a single copy being defective is 5 % , but the probability that two copies are both defective is 0.05 & times ; 0.05 = 0.0025 , or just 0.25 % .
Color blindness may also present Color blindness in the spectrum of degenerative diseases of the eye , such as age-related macular degeneration , and as part of the retinal damage caused by diabetes .
Color blindness involving the inactivation of the short-wavelength sensitive cone system ( whose absorption spectrum peaks in the bluish-violet ) is called tritanopia or , loosely , blue -- yellow color blindness .
Jeremy H. Nathans ( with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute ) demonstrated that the gene coding for the blue receptor lies on chromosome 7 , which is shared equally by males and females .
In September 2009 , the journal Nature reported that researchers at the University of Washington and University of Florida were able to give trichromatic vision to squirrel monkeys , which normally have only dichromatic vision , using gene therapy .
This is an important possibility to consider when designing , for example , emergency brake handles or emergency phones .
Following the crash , Professor Alarik Frithiof Holmgren , a physiologist , investigated and concluded that the color blindness of the engineer ( who had died ) had caused the crash .
However there is a claim that there is no ﬁrm evidence that color deﬁciency did cause the collision , and that Color blindness might have not been the sole cause .
Electronic wiring , transformers , resistors , and capacitors are color-coded as well , using black , brown , red , orange , green , yellow , blue , violet , gray , white , silver , gold .
Research published in 2009 carried out by the City University of London 's Applied Vision Research Centre , sponsored by the UK 's Civil Aviation Authority and the US Federal Aviation Administration , has established a more accurate assessment of color deficiencies in pilot applicants ' red -- green and yellow -- blue color range which could lead to a 35 % reduction in the number of prospective pilots who fail to meet the minimum medical threshold .
Written by Ruth and Augustus Goetz , adapted from their 1947 play The Heiress , the film is about a young naive woman who falls in love with a handsome young man , despite the objections of her emotionally abusive father who suspects the man of being a fortune hunter .
In his review in the New York Times , Bosley Crowther said the film `` crackles with allusive life and fire in The Heiress tender and agonized telling of an extraordinarily characterful tale '' and added , `` Mr. Wyler ... has given this somewhat austere drama an absorbing intimacy and a warming illusion of nearness that The Heiress did not have on the stage .
In 1996 , The Heiress was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
The Heiress is one of the handsome , intense and adult dramas of the year '' .
Directed by Charles Swickard , William S. Hart and Clifford Smith , and produced by Thomas H. Ince , the screenplay was written by C. Gardner Sullivan .
At the time , the Chicago Tribunes movie critic , Michael Wilmington , called Hell 's Hinges `` Hart 's acknowledged masterpiece , '' `` perhaps the finest movie Western made before John Ford 's 1939 Stagecoach , '' and `` as emotionally powerful as any American film of the teens , except for the masterpieces of D.W. Griffith and Erich Von Stroheim '' .
Hindenburg disaster newsreel footage refers to the footage filmed by several newsreel companies of Hindenburg disaster newsreel footage where the zeppelin Hindenburg crashed and burned on May 6 , 1937 .
One well-known newsreel found on the internet is a silent film with Pathe footage of the first 1936 landing at Lakehurst and Hearst News of the Day Newsreel footage of Hindenburg disaster newsreel footage , called a `` Pathegram '' by Eugene Castle of Castle Films .
Two distinct still frames flash between the ground crew scene and Hindenburg disaster newsreel footage ; these appear to be from Hindenburg disaster newsreel footage .
Soundman Addison Tice was present as well , and recorded some of the audio of Hindenburg disaster newsreel footage .
Computer security ( Also known as IT Security ) is information security as applied to computers and networks .
While hardware may be a source of insecurity , hardware based or assisted Computer security offers an alternative to software-only computer security .
This forms the foundation for a secure operating system which , if certain critical parts are designed and implemented correctly , can ensure the absolute impossibility of penetration by hostile elements .
These are very powerful security tools and very few secure operating systems have been certified at the highest level ( Orange Book A-1 ) to operate over the range of `` Top Secret '' to `` unclassified '' ( including Honeywell SCOMP , USAF SACDIN , NSA Blacker and Boeing MLS LAN .
The Common Criteria quantifies security strength of products in terms of two components , security functionality and assurance level ( such as EAL levels ) , and these are specified in a Protection Profile for requirements and a Security Target for product descriptions .
Unfortunately , there is no theoretical model of `` secure coding '' practices , nor is one practically achievable , insofar as the code ( ideally , read-only ) and data ( generally read/write ) generally tends to have some form of defect .
Lightning , power fluctuations , surges , brownouts , blown fuses , and various other power outages instantly disable all computer systems , since Computer security are dependent on an electrical source .
Computer security started to slow down , because Computer security were running a malicious code that demanded processor time and that spread Computer security to other computers .
username ` harry ' with a password ' ... harry ' ) or were obviously related to a list of 432 common passwords tested at each computer .
On April 1 , 2009 , Senator Jay Rockefeller ( D-WV ) introduced the `` Cybersecurity Act of 2009 - S. 773 '' ( full text in the Senate ; the bill , co-written with Senators Evan Bayh ( D-IN ) , Barbara Mikulski ( D-MD ) , Bill Nelson ( D-FL ) , and Olympia Snowe ( R-ME ) , was referred to the Committee on Commerce , Science , and Transportation , which approved a revised version of the same bill ( the `` Cybersecurity Act of 2010 '' ) on March 24 , 2010 .
The Electronic Frontier Foundation , an international non-profit digital rights advocacy and legal organization based in the United States , characterized the bill as promoting a `` potentially dangerous approach that favors the dramatic over the sober response '' .
On March 25 , 2010 , Representative Yvette Clarke ( D-NY ) introduced the `` International Cybercrime Reporting and Cooperation Act - H.R. 4962 '' ( full text in the House of Representatives ; the bill , co-sponsored by seven other representatives ( among whom only one Republican ) , was referred to three House committees .
Computer security also `` directs the President to give priority for assistance to improve legal , judicial , and enforcement capabilities with respect to cybercrime to countries with low information and communications technology levels of development or utilization in Computer security critical infrastructure , telecommunications systems , and financial industries '' as well as to develop an action plan and an annual compliance assessment for countries of `` cyber concern '' .
On June 19 , 2010 , United States Senator Joe Lieberman ( I-CT ) introduced a bill called `` Protecting Cyberspace as a National Asset Act of 2010 - S. 3480 '' ( full text in pdf , which he co-wrote with Senator Susan Collins ( R-ME ) and Senator Thomas Carper ( D-DE ) .
Like Goof Troop predecessors DuckTales , Chip 'n Dale Rescue Rangers , TaleSpin and Darkwing Duck and it successor Bonkers , Goof Troop was previewed in syndication with a pilot TV movie , which later aired as a multi-part serial during the regular run .
The program made a return from September 2006 until August 2008 , and the Christmas Special still aired on Christmas ( although is unknown if the special will be ever shown on Toon Disney 's replacement Disney XD ) in the United States .
Nikephoros I rule was endangered by Bardanes Tourkos , one of Nikephoros I ablest generals , who revolted and received support from other commanders , notably the later emperors Leo V the Armenian and Michael II the Amorian in 803 .
High School (1968 film) was shot over five weeks in March and April 1968 .
High School (1968 film) was largely well received by the principal and board of education , who found High School (1968 film) mostly accurate , but the principal , Mabel Haller , announced that she wanted the right to edit the film , since she felt parts of High School (1968 film) were taken out of context .
In fact , the desks in classroom were pushed together to make room for the film crew and the teacher , Mrs. London , was told not to try to lecture that day .
Cognates of the name `` Allāh '' exist in other Semitic languages , including Hebrew and Aramaic .
Meccans held that a kind of kinship existed between Allah and the jinn .
According to Islamic belief , Allah is the proper name of God , and humble submission to his will , divine ordinances and commandments is the pivot of the Muslim faith .
meaning : ` the best names ' or ` the most beautiful names ' ) , each of which evoke a distinct characteristic of Allah .
There are certain phrases in praise of God that are favored by Muslims , including `` Subḥān Allāh '' ( Holiness be to God ) , `` al-ḥamdu lillāh '' ( Praise be to God ) , '' '' ( There is no deity but God ) and `` Allāhu akbar '' ( God is great ) as a devotional exercise of remembering God ( dhikr ) .
Peters states that the Qur ' an portrays Allah as both more powerful and more remote than Yahweh , and as a universal deity , unlike Yahweh who closely follows Israelites .
The Aramaic word for `` God '' in the language of Assyrian Christians is , or Alaha .
Arab Christians for example use terms meaning God the Father , mean God the Son , and meaning God the Holy Spirit .
However , in his biography of Muḥammad ( 1934 ) , Tor Andræ always used the term Allah , though he allows that this `` conception of God '' seems to imply that Allah is different from that of the Jewish and Christian theologies .
Christians in Indonesia and Malaysia also use Allah to refer to God in the Malaysian language and Indonesian language ( both languages forms of the Malay language which is referred to as Bahasa Melayu ) .
After seeing Cunningham 's work on the 1994 film version of Judge Dredd , Stanley Kubrick head-hunted Cunningham to design and supervise animatronic tests of the central robot child character in Chris Cunningham version of the film A.I. Cunningham worked for over a year on the film A.I. , before leaving to pursue a career as a director .
Videos for Aphex Twin 's `` Come to Daddy '' and `` Windowlicker '' are perhaps Chris Cunningham best known .
Rubber Johnny , a six-minute experimental short film cut to a soundtrack by Aphex Twin , remixed by Chris Cunningham was shot between 2001 and 2004 .
Chris Cunningham Live debuted as one of the headline attractions at Warp 20 in Paris on 8 May 2009 with other performances scheduled at festivals in UK , and a number of European cities later in the year .
Chris Cunningham has created photography and cover artwork for various people including Björk 's `` All Is Full of Love '' , Aphex Twin 's `` Windowlicker '' and `` Come to Daddy '' .
Minorities , which `` traditionally and on long term basis live within the territorry of the Czech Republic '' enjoy some privileges .
Demographics of the Czech Republic mostly live in the large cities and towns , such as Prague , Brno and Ostrava , Karlovy Vary , Kladno , Ústí nad Labem , Děčín , Havířov etc. Nowadays the newcomers from Bulgaria aim especially for these areas , in which they can hold on the established community .
There is Romani press in the CR , written in both Czech and Romani , but Romani radio is broadcast in Czech and there is no Romani television .
Life expectancy , literacy , median wage , school enrolment , and other socio-economic markers remain low while , according to Říčan ( 1998 ) , Roma compose the majority of prison and habitual offender populations despite accounting for only a fraction of a percent of Czech population .
Czech language ( divided into three dialects in Bohemia proper , four dialects in Moravia , and two dialects in Czech Silesia ) is the official language of the state .
At the time that Romanos died , however , Basil was five years old and Constantine only three years old , so Theophano was named regent .
The tension between East and West resulting from the policies pursued by Nikephoros may be glimpsed in the unflattering description of Nikephoros II Phokas and Nikephoros II Phokas court by Bishop Liutprand of Cremona in Nikephoros II Phokas Relatio de legatione Constantinopolitana .
Nikephoros was the author of extant treatises on military tactics , most famously the Praecepta Militaria , which contains valuable information concerning the art of war in Nikephoros II Phokas time , and the less-known On Skirmishing ( Περί Παραδρομής in the original Greek ) , which concerned guerilla-like tactics for defence against a superior enemy invasion force -- though it is likely that this latter work , at least , was not composed by the Emperor but rather for Nikephoros II Phokas : translator and editor George T. Denis suggests that it was perhaps written by Nikephoros II Phokas brother Leo Phokas , then Domestic of the West .
Nikephoros was a very devout man , and Nikephoros II Phokas helped Nikephoros II Phokas friend , the monk Athanasios , found the monastery of Great Lavra on Mount Athos .
... '' Nikephoros II Phokas head was cut off and paraded on a spike , while Nikephoros II Phokas body was thrown out the window .
John Julius Norwich says `` It was a honourable place ; but Nikephoros Phocas , the White Death of the Saracens , hero of Syria and Crete , saintly and hideous , magnificent and insufferable , had deserved a better end '' .
Technology assessment ( TA , German Technikfolgenabschätzung , French évaluation des choix scientifiques et technologiques ) is a scientific , interactive , and communicative process that aims to contribute to the formation of public and political opinion on societal aspects of science and technology .
It is based on the conviction that new developments within , and discoveries by , the scientific community are relevant for the world at large rather than just for the scientific experts themselves , and that technological progress can never be free of ethical implications .
An important problem , TA has to deal with Technology assessment , is the so-called Collingridge dilemma : on the one hand , impacts of new technologies can not be easily predicted until the technology is extensively developed and widely used ; on the other hand , control or change of a technology is difficult as soon as Technology assessment is widely used .
As Alexios was entrusted with substantial armed forces to combat the impending Norman invasion , the Doukas faction , led by the Caesar John , conspired to overthrow Nikephoros and replace Nikephoros III Botaneiates with Alexios .
Failing to secure the support of either the Seljuk Turks or Nikephoros Melissenos ( both parties being Nikephoros III Botaneiates traditional enemies ) , Nikephoros III was forced to abdicate in favour of the Komnenos dynasty , to which Nikephoros III Botaneiates was connected through the engagement of Nikephoros III Botaneiates grandson to the daughter of Alexios 's older brother Manuel .
The strife among these cousins is a metaphor for the conflict between the lower appetites and civilized behavior in humankind .
Another Lapith hero , Caeneus , who was invulnerable to weapons , was beaten into the earth by Centaur wielding rocks and the branches of trees .
Like the Titanomachy , the defeat of the Titans by the Olympian gods , the contests with Centaur typify the struggle between civilization and barbarism .
A painted terracotta centaur was found in the `` Hero 's tomb '' at Lefkandi , and by the Geometric period , Centaur figure among the first representational figures painted on Greek pottery .
Though female centaurs , called Kentaurides , are not mentioned in early Greek literature and art , Centaur do appear occasionally in later antiquity .
In a description of a painting in Neapolis , the Greek rhetorician Philostratus the Elder describes them as sisters and wives of the male centaurs who live on Mount Pelion with their children .
The full-mount skeleton of a Centaur , built by Skulls Unlimited International , is on display , along with several other fabled creatures , including the Cyclops , Unicorn and Griffin .
Philip Jose Farmer 's World of Tiers series ( 1965 ) includes Centaur , called Half-Horses or Hoi Kentauroi .
An unknown and marginalized local school teacher , just like the mythological Chiron did for Prometheus , gave up his life for the future of his son who had chosen to be an independent artist in New York .
Since the last two censuses ( 2001 and 2011 ) provide widely divergent results , Demographics of Bulgaria are both shown in the table below .
Total population : 74.02 years Male : 70.62 years Female : 77.55 years ( 2012 est. ) 1.50 children born/woman ( 2012 ) Total : 7.8 deaths/1 ,000 live births ( 2012 ) Male : 9.2 deaths/1 ,000 live births ( 2012 ) Female : 6.2 deaths/1 ,000 live births ( 2012 ) 0 -- 14 years : 13.2 % 15 -- 65 years : 68.3 % 65 years and over : 18.5 % ( Census 2011 ) The median age is around 40 years as of 2011 .
About 97 per cent of the population live in privately owned and owner-occupied homes , which is the highest ownership rate in the world .
Currently there are three active mobile phone operators -- Mtel , GLOBUL and Vivacom , Mtel is the largest one with 5.2 million users as of 2010 , Globul has 3,9 million as of 2007 and Vivacom over 1 million .
In 1989 , High Noon was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant , '' entering the registry during the NFR 's first year of existence .
By the time the documentary aired , most of those immediately involved were dead , including Kramer , Foreman , Fred Zinnemann , and Gary Cooper .
Kramer 's widow rebuts Foreman 's contentions ; Victor Navasky , author of Naming Names and familiar with some of the circumstances surrounding High Noon because of interviews with Kramer 's widow among others , said the documentary seemed `` one-sided , and the problem is it makes a villain out of Stanley Kramer , when it was more complicated than that '' .
Writer , producer , and partner Carl Foreman was called before the House Un-American Activities Committee ( HUAC ) while he was writing High Noon .
Foreman said that Kramer was afraid of what would happen to him and his career if Kramer did not cooperate with the Committee .
Ronald Reagan , a conservative and fervent anti-Communist , said he appreciated High Noon because the main character had a strong dedication to duty , law , and the well-being of the town despite the refusal of the townspeople to help .
Dwight Eisenhower loved High Noon and frequently screened it in the White House , as did many other American presidents .
High Noon is the favourite film of DCI Gene Hunt of Life on Mars and Ashes to Ashes .
In subsequent years Romanos crowned Romanos I Lekapenos own sons co-emperors , Christopher in 921 , Stephen and Constantine in 924 , although , for the time being , Constantine VII was regarded as first in rank after Romanos Romanos I Lekapenos .
Although Byzantium would tacitly support a Serbian revolt against Bulgaria in 931 , and the Bulgarians would allow Magyar raids across their territory into Byzantine possessions , Byzantium and Bulgaria remained at peace for 40 years , until Sviatoslav 's invasion of Bulgaria .
John Kourkouas , although considered by some of Romanos I Lekapenos contemporaries `` a second Trajan or Belisarius , '' was dismissed after the fall of the Lekapenoi in 945 .
The new patriarch did not achieve renown for Romanos I Lekapenos piety and spirituality , but Romanos I Lekapenos added theatrical elements to the Byzantine liturgy and was an avid horse-breeder , allegedly leaving mass to tend to one of Romanos I Lekapenos favorite mares when she was giving birth .
Fearing that Romanos would allow Constantine VII to succeed Romanos I Lekapenos instead of them , Romanos I Lekapenos younger sons Stephen and Constantine arrested their father in December 944 , carried Romanos I Lekapenos off to the Prince 's Islands and compelled Romanos I Lekapenos to become a monk .
Walter Burns ( Cary Grant ) is a hard-boiled editor for The Morning Post who learns his ex-wife and former star reporter , Hildegard `` Hildy '' Johnson ( Rosalind Russell ) , is about to marry bland insurance man Bruce Baldwin ( Ralph Bellamy ) and settle down to a quiet life as a wife and mother in Albany , New York .
Most of the original dialogue and all of the characters ' names ( with the exception of Bruce Baldwin , Hildy 's fiance , who was of course a woman in the play ) were left the same .
Romanos II ( or Romanus ) II ( Greek : Ρωμανός Β΄ , Rōmanos II ) ( 938 -- 15 March 963 ) was a Byzantine Emperor .
Two men ( Edmond O'Brien and Frank Lovejoy ) on a fishing trip pick up a hitchhiker named Emmett Myers ( William Talman ) , who turns out to be a psychopath who has committed multiple murders .
Location shooting took place in the Alabama Hills near Lone Pine and Big Pine , California .
The Hitch-Hiker wrote , `` The Hitch-Hikers desert locale , although not so graphically dark as a cityscape at night , isolates the protagonists in a milieu as uninviting and potentially deadly as any in film noir '' .
The overall movement of a bacterium is the result of alternating tumble and swim phases .
Bacteria such as E. coli are unable to choose the direction in which Chemotaxis swim , and are unable to swim in a straight line for more than a few seconds due to rotational diffusion .
This purposeful random walk is a result of simply choosing between two methods of random movement ; namely tumbling and straight swimming .
In fact , Chemotaxis responses such as forgetting direction and choosing movements resemble the decision-making abilities of higher life-forms with brains that process sensory data .
Well established examples are the ultra-sensitive response of the motor to the CheY-P signal , and the clustering of chemoreceptors .
A changed migratory potential of cells has relatively high importance in the development of several clinical symptoms and syndromes .
Chemotaxis is the phenomenon whereby somatic cells , bacteria , and other single-cell or multicellular organisms direct their movements according to certain chemicals in their environment .
Captain James Hook ( James is sometimes shortened to Jas ) is a fictional character and the main antagonist of J. M. Barrie 's play Peter Pan ; or , the Boy Who Would n't Grow Up and Captain Hook various adaptations .
It is implied that he attended Eton College and Balliol in the play ; Captain Hook final words are `` Floreat Etona '' , the College 's motto .
In the novel Peter and Wendy , Captain Hook is described as `` cadaverous '' and `` blackavized '' , with blue eyes and long dark curls which look like `` black candles '' at a distance .
The author mainly expands upon details in Barrie 's original play and novel , while changing a few key points - he ascribes James 's strange colouring and yellow blood to a blood disorder ; James 's long dark hair is natural , rather than the usual wig ; James is christened `` Captain Hook '' after murdering the quartermaster of the Sea Witch , rather than in reference to his prosthetic hand ( in the original novel , Captain Hook was known as `` Captain Hook '' before he lost his hand , so this is consistent ) .
Similar to the Disney film incarnation of Captain Hook , Captain Hook walks the line between a dangerous villain and a comic buffoon .
Captain Hook believed that Wendy was a `` Princess of Heart '' and that is why he captured her .
After confronting Captain Hook on the deck , learning that Riku took Kairi to Hollow Bastion , Sora and company are forced to surrender when Captain Hook uses Tinker Bell as a hostage .
He later reappears in Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days , finding a large amount of treasure maps all leading to boxes that are actually set to release Heartless once Captain Hook opens the chest ( unknown to Captain Hook and Smee , however , is that these chests were set up to help build Pete 's Heartless army ) .
This happens when Peter and Wendy appear to make Goofy 's dream for some adventure come true and play a game of `` Pretend to Be Pirates '' with Donald Duck , who pretends to be Captain Hook until the real Captain Hook appears and challenges Peter to a duel .
In 1989 , the Japanese Nippon Animation produced 41 episodes of Peter Pan - the Animated Series ; this was aired on World Masterpiece Theater and in several other countries .
He was voiced in the Japanese version by Chikao Ōhtsuka , who also portrayed the Disney incarnation of Captain Hook in Japanese media , particularly in Kingdom Hearts and .
Having won back Jack 's loyalty after Captain Hook slays Rufio - the previous leader of the Lost Boys - in front of Jack , Peter and Captain Hook engage in a final duel amid a circle of Lost Boys holding him at bay with ticking clocks , and is apparently `` eaten '' by the crocodile who seems to temporarily come back to life and falls on top of him .
In A. C. Crispin 's 2011 novel , Captain Hook is referenced in a conversation between Captain Teague and Pirate Lord Don Rafael .
Jimmy , in a rage , reveals that he killed Peter 's father and attempts to leave the island .
Alongside other inflatable villains such as Lord Voldemort , the Queen of Hearts , Cruella de Vil and The Child Catcher , Captain Hook made an appearance during the opening ceremony of the XXX Olympiad in London , representing one of the many villains taken from British children 's literature .
One of the sets released in this wave , , features a handful of Donald-centric shorts from both Mickey Mouse Works and House of Mouse as bonuses , including Bird Brained Donald , Donald and the Big Nut , Donald 's Charmed Date , Donald 's Dinner Date , Donald 's Failed Fourth , Donald 's Rocket Ruckus , Donald 's Shell Shots , Donald 's Valentine Dollar , Music Store Donald and Survival of the Woodchucks .
Cheshire is a ceremonial county in England , sitting between the West Midlands and the North West .
A series of changes that occurred as English itself changed , together with some simplifications and elision , resulted in the name Cheshire , as Cheshire occurs today .
For this and other reasons , the Welsh name for Cheshire ( Swydd Gaerlleon ) is sometimes used within Welsh and by Wales speakers .
King William created one of his barons , Hugh d'Avranches ( nicknamed Hugh Lupus , or ` wolf ' ) as Earl of Cheshire , ruling virtually autonomously in William 's name and with his full authority , and Cheshire was thereby declared a County Palatine .
The area between the Mersey and Ribble ( referred to in the Domesday Book as `` Inter Ripam et Mersam '' ) formed part of the returns for Cheshire .
Although this has been interpreted to mean that at that time south Lancashire was part of Cheshire , more exhaustive research indicates that the boundary between Cheshire and what was to become Lancashire remained the River Mersey .
The area of Lancashire south of the Merseyside/Greater Manchester area , including Widnes and the county borough of Warrington , was added to Cheshire .
Occasional residential and industrial buildings , such as Helsby railway station ( 1849 ) , are also in this sandstone .
A footpath , the Sandstone Trail , follows this ridge from Frodsham to Whitchurch passing Delamere Forest , Beeston Castle and earlier Iron Age forts .
This means that although there is no county-wide elected local authority , Cheshire has a Lord Lieutenant and High Sheriff for ceremonial purposes under the Lieutenancies Act 1997 .
The majority of the county ( south and east ) are covered by BBC Radio Stoke , whilst BBC Radio Merseyside tends to cover the west .
Today , there are three universities based in Cheshire , the University of Cheshire , the Crewe campus of Manchester Metropolitan University and the Cheshire campus of The University of Law .
The concept of a county town eventually became detached from County town original meaning of where the county administration or county hall is based .
Many county towns are in fact cities , but all are referred to as County town irrespective of whether city status is held or not .
Furthermore , in 1965 and 1974 there were major boundary changes in England and Wales and administrative counties were replaced with new metropolitan and non-metropolitan counties .
was created on October 7 , 1997 , as Tricon Global Restaurants , Inc. an independent company , as a result of a spin-out of the former fast food division of PepsiCo , which owned and franchised the KFC , Pizza Hut , and Taco Bell brands worldwide .
On May 16 , 2002 , the name change became effective after a vote during Yum! Brands annual shareholders meeting , and on June 17 , 2002 , Yum !
announced Yum! Brands intentions to divest Yum! Brands of Yum! Brands Long John Silver 's and A&W brands to focus on Yum! Brands core brands of KFC , Pizza Hut and Taco Bell .
The foreign expansion -- particularly that of Taco Bell , KFC and Pizza Hut -- was cited in the firm 's January 18 , 2011 announcement of Yum! Brands intention to sell the A&W and Long John Silver 's chains .
The deal spent more than 4 months in anti-trust review by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce , to determine whether or not the transaction would result in a monopolistic positioning of Yum !
John Sholto Douglas , 9th Marquess of Queensberry ( 20 July 1844 -- 31 January 1900 ) was a Scottish nobleman , remembered for lending John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry name and patronage to the `` Marquess of Queensberry rules '' that formed the basis of modern boxing , for John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry outspoken atheism , and for John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry role in the downfall of author and playwright Oscar Wilde .
John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry died , two months after a stroke , and after a period of mental decline believed to be caused by syphilis , in John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry club room in Welbeck Street , west London , aged 55 nearly a year before Oscar Wilde 's death .
John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry eldest son and heir apparent was Francis , Viscount Drumlanrig , who was rumoured to have been engaged in a homosexual relationship with the Liberal Prime Minister , Archibald Primrose , 5th Earl of Rosebery .
Lord Alfred `` Bosie '' John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry , the third son , was the close friend and lover of the famous author and poet Oscar Wilde .
In February 1895 , angered by the apparent ongoing homosexual relationship between author Oscar Wilde and John Douglas, 9th Marquess of Queensberry son Alfred , Queensberry called Wilde a `` somdomite '' ( sic ) in handwriting on a visiting card at Wilde 's club .
Lord Alfred Douglas ( 22 October 1870 -- 20 March 1945 ) , nicknamed Bosie , was a British author , poet and translator , better known as the intimate friend and lover of the writer Oscar Wilde .
At Oxford , Lord Alfred Douglas edited an undergraduate journal The Spirit Lamp ( 1892 -- 3 ) , an activity that intensified the constant conflict between Lord Alfred Douglas and Lord Alfred Douglas father .
In 1885 , Lord Alfred Douglas tried to abduct a young girl , and after that became ever more manic .
Alfred Douglas 's aunt , Lord James 's twin Lady Florence Douglas ( 1855 -- 1905 ) , was an author , war correspondent for the Morning Post during the First Boer War , and a feminist .
Douglas , known to Lord Alfred Douglas friends as ` Bosie ' , has been described as spoiled , reckless , insolent and extravagant .
Douglas 's French was very poor and Lord Alfred Douglas translation was highly criticised : a passage that goes `` On ne doit regarder que dans les miroirs '' ( French for `` One should only look in mirrors '' ) was translated as `` One must not look at mirrors '' .
Beardsley complained to Robbie Ross : `` For one week the numbers of telegraph and messenger boys who came to the door was simply scandalous '' .
Accepting this , Douglas , in Lord Alfred Douglas vanity , compared a dedication to sharing the title-page as `` the difference between a tribute of admiration from an artist and a receipt from a tradesman '' .
Instead Douglas moved to the Grand Hotel and , on Wilde 's 40th birthday , sent Lord Alfred Douglas a letter saying that Lord Alfred Douglas had charged Lord Alfred Douglas the bill .
Lord Alfred Douglas and a minder confronted the playwright in Lord Alfred Douglas own home ; later , Queensberry planned to throw rotten vegetables at Wilde during the premiere of The Importance of Being Earnest , but , forewarned of this , the playwright was able to deny Lord Alfred Douglas access to the theatre .
Wilde was closely questioned about the homoerotic themes in The Picture of Dorian Gray and in The Chameleon , a single-issue magazine published by Douglas to which Lord Alfred Douglas had contributed a short article .
Douglas served as chief mourner , although there reportedly was an altercation at the gravesite between Lord Alfred Douglas and Robbie Ross .
The allegations were made by Lord Alfred Douglas in a journal called Plain English and later at a public meeting in London .
Lord Alfred Douglas said in Oscar Wilde : A Summing Up that `` Sometimes a sin is also a crime ( for example , a murder or theft ) but this is not the case with homosexuality , any more than with adultery '' .
When Lord Alfred Douglas mother , Olive Douglas , died of a cerebral hemorrhage at the age of 67 , Raymond was able to attend her funeral and in June Lord Alfred Douglas was again decertified .
At the Ruskin trial ( see below ) , Whistler claimed the more exotic St. Petersburg , Russia as James Abbott McNeill Whistler birthplace : `` James Abbott McNeill Whistler shall be born when and where James Abbott McNeill Whistler want , and James Abbott McNeill Whistler do not choose to be born in Lowell '' , James Abbott McNeill Whistler declared .
Young Whistler was a moody child prone to fits of temper and insolence , who -- after bouts of ill-health -- often drifted into periods of laziness .
Whistler 's brother-in-law Francis Haden , a physician who was also an artist , spurred James Abbott McNeill Whistler interest in art and photography .
James Abbott McNeill Whistler cousin reported that Whistler at that time was `` slight , with a pensive , delicate face , shaded by soft brown curls ... James Abbott McNeill Whistler had a somewhat foreign appearance and manner , which , aided by natural abilities , made James Abbott McNeill Whistler very charming , even at that age '' .
On the strength of James Abbott McNeill Whistler family name , and despite James Abbott McNeill Whistler extreme nearsightedness and poor health history , James Abbott McNeill Whistler was admitted to the highly selective institution .
The latter was a great advocate of the work of Ingres , and impressed Whistler with two principles that James Abbott McNeill Whistler used for the rest of James Abbott McNeill Whistler career : line is more important than color and that black is the fundamental color of tonal harmony .
James Abbott McNeill Whistler poor health , made worse by excessive smoking and drinking , laid James Abbott McNeill Whistler low .
James Abbott McNeill Whistler good friend Fantin-Latour , growing more reactionary in James Abbott McNeill Whistler opinions , especially in James Abbott McNeill Whistler negativity concerning the emerging Impressionist school , found Whistler 's new works surprising and confounding .
In James Abbott McNeill Whistler typically slow and experimental way , at first James Abbott McNeill Whistler had her stand , but that proved too tiring so the famous seated pose was adopted .
Mostly because of its anti-Victorian simplicity , during a time in England when sentimentality and flamboyant decoration were in vogue , the public reacted negatively .
From the start , Whistler 's Mother sparked varying reactions , including parody , ridicule , and reverence , which have continued to today .
Some of the lithographs are of figures slightly draped ; two or three of the very finest are of Thames subjects -- including a `` nocturne '' at Limehouse ; while others depict the Faubourg Saint-Germain in Paris , and Georgian churches in Soho and Bloomsbury in London .
At one point , Whistler gained access to Leyland 's home and painted two fighting peacocks meant to represent the artist and James Abbott McNeill Whistler patron ; one holds a paint brush and the other holds a bag of money .
A large painted caricature by Whistler of Leyland portraying James Abbott McNeill Whistler as an anthropomorphic peacock playing a piano , and entitled The Gold Scab : Eruption in Frilthy LucreNone - a pun on Leyland 's fondness for frilly shirt fronts - is now in the collection of the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco .
The cost of the case , together with huge debts from building James Abbott McNeill Whistler residence ( `` The White House '' in Tite Street , Chelsea , designed with E. W. Godwin , 1877 -- 8 ) , bankrupted James Abbott McNeill Whistler by May 1879 , resulting in an auction of James Abbott McNeill Whistler work , collections , and house .
Stansky notes the irony that the Fine Art Society of London , which had organized a collection to pay for Ruskin 's legal costs , supported James Abbott McNeill Whistler in etching `` the stones of Venice '' ( and in exhibiting the series in 1883 ) , which helped recoup Whistler 's costs .
James Abbott McNeill Whistler close friendships with Monet and poet Stéphane Mallarmé , who translated the `' Ten O’Clock Lecture '' into French , helped strengthen respect for Whistler by the French public .
Historians speculate that Courbet 's erotic painting of her as L'Origine du monde led to the breakup of the friendship between Whistler and Courbet .
During the 1870s and much of the 1880s , James Abbott McNeill Whistler lived with James Abbott McNeill Whistler model-mistress Maud Franklin .
As American critic Charles Caffin wrote in 1907 : `` James Abbott McNeill Whistler did better than attract a few followers and imitators ; James Abbott McNeill Whistler influenced the whole world of art .
Bunthorne wears a monocle and has prominent white streaks in James Abbott McNeill Whistler dark hair , as did Whistler .
Honoured members are inducted into the Hall of Fame in an annual ceremony held at the Hall of Fame building in November , which is followed by a special `` Hockey Hall of Fame Game '' between the Toronto Maple Leafs and a visiting team .
In the same year , the NHL and the Canadian National Exhibition ( CNE ) reached an agreement to establish a new Hall of Fame building in Toronto , in the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame located at Exhibition Place .
By 1986 , the Hall of Fame was running out of room in Hockey Hall of Fame existing facilities and the Board of Directors decided that a new home was needed .
Hockey Hall of Fame counterpart , Lay 's Shut Out , has visitors playing goaltender , blocking shots from computer simulations of players Wayne Gretzky and Mark Messier .
In any given year , a maximum of four players , two builders , and one on-ice official are inducted as members .
In 1999 the `` Hockey Hall of Fame game '' was established , a contest between the Toronto Maple Leafs and a visiting team , with a special ceremony honouring that year 's inductees held before the game .
The Hall of Fame has also been criticised for failing to induct international players and critics have claimed that the Hall has been far too focused on the National Hockey League .
One of the most discussed potential nominees is Paul Henderson , who scored the winning goal in the final moments of the deciding eighth game of the 1972 Summit Series between Canada and the Soviet Union .
Originally , the Hall of Fame was not going to become involved in the issue , but was forced to act when dozens of inductees , including Bobby Orr , Ted Lindsay and Brad Park , campaigned for Eagleson 's expulsion , even threatening to renounce their membership if he was not removed .
For example , the introductory signal `` See '' tells the reader that the cited authority either ( a ) supports the stated proposition implicitly , or ( b ) contains dicta that support the proposition .
`` But see , '' on the other hand , tells the reader that the cited authority either ( a ) contradicts the stated proposition implicitly , or ( b ) contains dicta that contradict the stated proposition .
There is an inferential step between the authority cited and the proposition Citation signal supports .
In legal practice , the writer italicizes `` compare , '' `` with , '' and `` and '' .
In recent years , the 1867 document has mainly served as the basis on which the division of powers between the provinces and federal government have been analyzed .
Endorsed by all provincial governments except that of Quebec ( led by René Lévesque ) , this was the formal Canadian Act of Parliament that achieved full and final political independence from the United Kingdom .
Part V of this act established an amending formula for Constitution of Canada , the lack of which ( due to more than 50 years of disagreement between the federal and provincial governments ) was the only reason Canada 's constitutional amendments still required approval by the British parliament after ratification of the Statute of Westminster in 1931 .
Constitution of Canada only applies to government and government actions with the intention to prevent government from creating laws that are unconstitutional .
In 1983 , Peter Greyson , an art student , entered Ottawa 's National Archives ( known today as Library and Archives Canada ) and poured red paint mixed with glue over a copy of the proclamation of the 1982 constitutional amendment .
He said he was displeased with the federal government 's decision to allow United States missile testing in Canada and had wanted to `` graphically illustrate to Canadians '' how wrong he believed the government to be .
The Dauphin of Dauphin of France -- strictly The Dauphin of Viennois ( Dauphin de Viennois ) -- was the title given to the heir apparent to the throne of Dauphin of France from 1350 to 1791 and 1824 to 1830 .
Christopher `` Christy '' Mathewson ( August 12 , 1880 -- October 7 , 1925 ) , nicknamed `` Big Six '' , `` The Christian Gentleman '' , or `` Matty '' , was an American Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher .
Between July and September 1900 Mathewson appeared in six games for the Giants .
Some historians speculate that the Giants got word that their star pitcher was risking Christy Mathewson life and baseball career for the Stars and ordered Christy Mathewson to stop , while others feel that the Stars ' coach , Willis Richardson , got rid of Mathewson because Christy Mathewson felt that , since the fullback 's punting skills were hardly used , Christy Mathewson could replace Christy Mathewson with a local player , Shirley Ellis .
Employing a good fastball , outstanding control , and , especially , a new pitch Christy Mathewson termed the `` fadeaway '' ( later known in baseball as the `` screwball '' ) , which Christy Mathewson learned from teammate Dave Williams in 1898 , This reference is challenged by Ken Burns documentary Baseball in which it is stated that Mathewson learned Christy Mathewson `` fadeaway '' from Andrew `` Rube '' Foster when New York Giants manager John Joseph McGraw quietly hired Rube to show the Giants bullpen what Christy Mathewson knew .
Christy Mathewson 1.271 WHIP , quite uncharacteristic of Christy Mathewson , was due to an increased amount of hits and walks .
Although Christy Mathewson returned to serve as a coach for the Giants from -- , Christy Mathewson spent a good portion of that time in Saranac Lake fighting the illness , initially at the Trudeau Sanitorium , and later in a house that Christy Mathewson had built .
The Southern and Southern and Northern Dynasties was a period in the history of China that lasted from 420 to 589 .
The famous Chinese mathematician and astronomer Zu Chongzhi ( 429 -- 500 ) belonged to this age , an intellectual and social product of the elite culture shaped and developed in southern China during this period of time .
After the collapse of a united China under the Han dynasty in 220 due in large part to the Yellow Turban and Five Pecks of Rice rebellions , China eventually coalesced into the Three Kingdoms .
During the reigns of Emperor Huai of Jin and Emperor Min of Jin , the country was put into grave danger with the uprising of the northern non-Han barbarians collectively known as Wu Hu .
Cementing Southern and Northern Dynasties power in the south , the Jin established modern-day Nanjing ( then called Jianye and renamed Jiankang ) as their new capital , renaming the dynasty as the Eastern Jin ( 317 -- 420 ) since the new capital was located southeast of Luoyang .
Although the Chinese of the Eastern Jin ( and successive southern dynasties ) were well-defended from the northern barbarians by placement of naval fleets along the Yangtze River , there were still various problems faced with building and maintaining military strength .
The Eastern Jin Dynasty fell not because of external invasion , though , but because the general Liu Yu seized the throne from Emperor Gong of Jin , becoming Emperor Wu of Liu Song ( reigned 420 -- 422 ) , starting the Southern and Northern Dynasties period .
Emperor Wu of Liang ( 502 -- 549 ) , however , was the most notable ruler of his age , being a patron of the arts and of Buddhism .
In order to gain popularity to take the throne , Liu Yu undertook two northern expeditions against the Sixteen Kingdoms , capturing Shandong , Henan , and briefly Guanzhong by 416 .
Because he believed in a prophecy saying there would be one more emperor after Emperor An of Jin , he deposed Emperor An , and soon afterwards Emperor An 's replacement , Emperor Gong of Jin in 420 , ending the Eastern Jin dynasty .
The short reigns of Emperor Wu 's grandsons , Xiao Zhaoye and Xiao Zhaowen ( his first son predeceased him ) , were dominated by Xiao Luan , Emperor 's Wu 's first cousin .
So when Northern Wei suffered major revolts in Southern and Northern Dynasties northern garrison towns , he sent his general Chen Qingzhi to support the pretender Yuan Hao .
The Northern , Eastern , and Western Wei along with the Northern Zhou were established by the Xianbei people while the Northern Qi was established by Sinicized barbarians .
Although Southern and Northern Dynasties was conquered by the Former Qin , the defeat of the Former Qin at the Battle of Fei River resulted in the collapse of the Former Qin .
In the first half of the Northern Wei Dynasty ( 386 -- 534 ) , the Xianbei steppe tribesmen who dominated northern China kept a policy of strict social distinction between them and their Chinese subjects .
With greater military power and morale , along with convincing propaganda that the Chen Dynasty ruler Chen Shubao was a decadent ruler who had lost the Mandate of Heaven , the Sui Dynasty was able to effectively conquer the south .
After this conquest , the whole of China entered a new golden age of reunification under the centralization of the short-lived Sui Dynasty and succeeding Tang Dynasty ( 618 -- 907 ) .
This era produced a myriad of writers that advocated practical systems of governance and administration , such as Cao Cao and Zhuge Liang in the Three Kingdoms Period , Wang Dao and Bao Jingyan of the Eastern Jin , as well as Fan Zhen , Xing Shao , and Fan Xun of the Southern and Northern period .
In the Southern Dynasty , a type of essay known as pian wen , which used metered rhyme , flowery language , and classical allusions , became popular .
The introduction of Buddhism to China , which began in the late Han Dynasty and continued through the Tang Dynasty , introduced Chinese scholars to Sanskrit and Southern and Northern Dynasties highly organized phonological system .
The Chinese arts of poetry , calligraphy , painting , and playing of music found greater precedent during this age , as their sophistication and complexity reached new heights .
Even during his lifetime , the written calligraphy of the `` Sage of Calligraphy '' , Wang Xizhi ( 307 -- 365 ) , was prized by many and considered a true form of personal expression like other arts .
Zu Chongzhi devised the new Daming Calendar in 465 , calcuated one year as 365.24281481 days ( which is very close to 365.24219878 days as we know today ) , and calculated the number of overlaps between sun and moon as 27.21223 ( which is very close to 27.21222 as we know today ) .
Using this number he successfully predicted 4 eclipses during Southern and Northern Dynasties .
Although multiple story towers such as guard towers and residential apartments existed in previous periods , during this period the distinct Chinese pagoda tower ( for storing Buddhist scriptures ) evolved from the stupa , the latter originating from Buddhist traditions of protecting sutras in ancient India .
While frequently expressed in large wooden carvings ( totem poles ) , Chilkat weaving , or ornate jewelry , Haida people is also moving quickly into works of popular expression such as Haida manga .
Haida territories lie in both Canada and the United States , as do those of the Tlingit and Tsimshian peoples .
Their heartland is the two large and many smaller islands known as Haida Gwaii , which means `` land of the people '' in Haida .
Haida also live in Southeast Alaska , particularly on the southern half of Prince of Wales Island in communities such as Hydaburg , and in large cities elsewhere in the region such as Ketchikan .
Among the half-dozen ships the tribe captured were the Eleanor and the Susan Sturgis .
When Haida people came to the mouth of the river , Haida people came upon the charred remains of the village of the Qualicum people and the mutilated bodies of Haida people inhabitants , with only one survivor , an elderly woman , hiding terrified inside a tree stump .
In arithmetic , subtraction is one of the four basic binary operations ; Subtraction is the inverse of addition , meaning that if we start with any number and add any number and then subtract the same number we added , we return to the number we started with .
Ordinarily a ring only has two operations defined on Subtraction ; in the case of the integers , these are addition and multiplication .
While 18th-century accounts of European explorers along the coast indicate that poles existed prior to 1800 , they were smaller and fewer in number than in subsequent decades .
Due to United States and Canadian policies and practices of acculturation and assimilation , Alaska Natives sharply reduced their production of Totem pole at the end of the 19th century .
`` Some of the figures on the poles constitute symbolic reminders of quarrels , murders , debts , and other unpleasant occurrences about which the Native Americans prefer to remain silent ... The most widely known tales , like those of the exploits of Raven and of Kats who married the bear woman , are familiar to almost every native of the area .
A counterargument frequently heard is that figures are arranged in a `` reverse hierarchy '' style , with the most important representations being on the bottom , and the least important being on top .
Totem pole includes the inverted and distorted face of Exxon ex-CEO Lee Raymond , representing the unpaid debt that courts determined Exxon owes for having caused the oil spill in Valdez .
The beliefs behind the lack of maintenance vary among individuals , but generally it is believed that the deterioration of Totem pole is representative of natural processes of decay and death that occur with all living things , and attempts to prevent this are seen as somehow denying or ignoring the nature of the world .
Totem pole ask that public display and sale of pictures and other representations of totem pole designs should be cleared with both the owners of the pole and the cultural group or tribal government associated with the designs on the pole .
These include imitation styles made by other First Nations and Native American peoples in the various parts of Canada and the American Southwest .
This proliferation of `` totem junk '' has diluted the public interest and respect for the artistic skill and deep cultural knowledge required to produce a pole .
Poison Ivy (comics) has been featured in the television series , and The Batman , by voice actresses Diane Pershing and Piera Coppola respectively .
Following the events of the DC maxi-series comic Crisis on Infinite Earths , which massively retconned DC Universe history and continuity , Poison Ivy (comics) origins were revised in Secret Origins 36 , 1988 , written by Neil Gaiman .
The purpose of this is to create a world economy run on hemp and to have their offspring control Poison Ivy (comics) .
The Gotham City Police Department threaten to spray the park with R.C. Sixty , a powerful herbicide that most certainly would have killed every living plant in the park , including Ivy , and more than likely do harm to the children .
Her task is to hypnotize both Superman and Catwoman , using Catwoman to steal ransom money from Killer Croc after the original plan is interrupted by Batman while Superman serves as a ` bodyguard ' when she hides in Metropolis .
Ivy , who is angered by the manipulation , battles the Riddler physically and psychologically .
Shortly after , Poison Ivy (comics) appears briefly in Robinson Park , killing two corrupt cops who killed one of her orphans ( although whether this takes place before or after the aforementioned storyline is unknown ) .
After arriving back from a year-long absence , Batman discovers that Ivy has been feeding people including `` tiresome lovers '' , `` incompetent henchmen '' , and those who `` returned her smile '' to a giant plant which would digest the victims slowly and painfully .
Poison Ivy (comics) run into Ivy , who is talking to her plants ( presumably being told that Piper and Trickster hurt them ) , to which she reacts by tying them up in vines with the intention of killing them .
After Poison Ivy (comics) are defeated by Catwoman and Batman , Catwoman then tells Poison Ivy that Poison Ivy (comics) are no longer friends , after Ivy had drugged Catwoman in an attempt to discover Batman 's identity .
While Poison Ivy (comics) were fighting , Catwoman confessed that she saw good in the both of them and only wanted to help them .
The dangerous experiments that transformed Pamela into Poison Ivy (comics) placed a deliberate overdose of plant and animal based toxins into her blood stream that make her touch deadly while also allowing her to boost her immunity to all poisons , viruses , bacteria , and fungi .
In JLA/Avengers 3 , Poison Ivy (comics) appears as a servant of Krona and attacks Aquaman and the Vision as a part of a group of villains .
Poison Ivy (comics) is a servant of Krona and attacks Aquaman and the Vision as a part of a group of villains .
David Brin ( born October 6 , 1950 ) is an American scientist and award-winning author of science fiction .
`` Temptation '' appeared in Robert Silverberg 's anthology Far Horizons : All New Tales from the Greatest Worlds of Science Fiction and is set after the events in the Infinity 's Shore .
Many of Brin 's `` original '' works ( works not set into pre-existing series or `` universes '' ) focus on the impact on human society of technology humankind develops for itself , a theme which commonly appears in contemporary North American science-fiction .
Tikkun Olam ( `` repairing the world '' , i.e. people have a duty to make the world a better place ) is originally a religious concept but David Brin , like many non-orthodox Jews , has adapted this into a secular notion of working to improve the human condition , to increase knowledge , and to prevent long-term evils .
Brin has confirmed that this notion in part underscores the notion of humans as `` caretakers '' of sentient-species-yet-to-be , as David Brin explains in a concluding note at the end of Startide Rising ; and it plays a key role in The Uplift War , where the Thennanin are converted from enemies to allies of the Terragens ( humans and other sapients that originated on Earth ) when they realize that making the world a better place and being good caretakers are core values of both civilizations .
Hercules: The Legendary Journeys was produced from 1995 , and was very loosely based on the tales of the classical Greek culture hero Heracles ( Hercules was his Roman analogue ) .
The show had a successful spin-off , , with which Hercules: The Legendary Journeys shared recurring characters such as Ares ( Kevin Smith ) , Autolycus ( Bruce Campbell ) , Salmoneus ( Robert Trebor ) , Aphrodite ( Alexandra Tydings ) , Deimos/Strife ( Joel Tobeck ) and Callisto ( Hudson Leick ) .
Andromeda (TV series) ( formally titled Gene Roddenberry 's Andromeda ) is a Canadian/American science fiction television series , based on unused material by the late Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry , developed by Robert Hewitt Wolfe , and produced by Roddenberry 's widow , Majel Barrett .
Andromeda (TV series) was filmed in Vancouver , British Columbia , Canada , and produced by Tribune Entertainment and Fireworks Entertainment .
Andromeda (TV series) was distributed by Global TV ( Fireworks ' parent company ) in Canada and syndicated in the United States on WGN and other channels .
Andromeda (TV series) is one of two TV series ( to date ) based upon concepts Roddenberry had created as early as the 1960s and 1970s .
The name Dylan Hunt had also been used for the hero of two TV movie pilots Roddenberry had produced in the mid-1970s , Genesis II and Planet Earth , which had a similar premise .
`` Rev '' is short for Reverend ; although he is a Magog and thus violent by nature , he has discovered a non-violent , Taoist-like religious order called The Way and become a Wayist priest .
Slipstream is the primary mode of travel for ships in the Andromeda (TV series) universe , and the only known method of traveling faster than the speed of light .
Further , slipstream is a non-linear method of travel ; the best and swiftest way to get from Point A to Point B ( though Andromeda (TV series) might be in the same galaxy ) may very well involve hopping to another galaxy entirely .
Andromeda (TV series) was nominated for six Academy of Science Fiction , Fantasy & Horror Films , USA awards , five Chicago International Film Festival awards , eight Gemini Awards , fifteen Leo Awards , and five WorldFest Houston awards .
Andromeda (TV series) is a Canadian/American science fiction television series , based on unused material by the late Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry , developed by Robert Hewitt Wolfe , and produced by Roddenberry 's widow , Majel Barrett .
Kevin Sorbo ( born September 24 , 1958 ) is an American actor best known for the roles of Hercules in , Captain Dylan Hunt in Andromeda and Kull in Kull the Conqueror .
Kevin Sorbo and Kevin Sorbo girlfriend claimed to have seen the ghost of the `` Bride of White Rock Lake '' - a woman who supposedly died on her wedding day , murdered by a former lover .
In 1997 , while on a publicity tour for Kull the Conqueror and between the 4th and 5th seasons of Hercules , Sorbo experienced an aneurysm in Kevin Sorbo shoulder , which led to three strokes , which Kevin Sorbo attributes to a chiropractic manipulation .
As a result , Kevin Sorbo was weakened for the next several years , a condition that Kevin Sorbo and the producers of Hercules kept secret from the public .
The strokes , said to have been triggered when a chiropractic manipulation released blood clots from an aneurysm in Kevin Sorbo shoulder , have left Kevin Sorbo with permanent 10 % vision loss , weakness , balance issues and migraines .
Poutine is a common Canadian dish ( originally from Quebec ) , made with french fries , topped with brown gravy and cheese curds .
Among Poutine various culinary senses , that of `` a dessert made from flour or bread crumbs '' most clearly shows this influence ; the word pouding , borrowed from the English pudding , is in fact a synonym in this sense .
The pejorative meaning `` fat person '' of poutine ( used especially in speaking of Poutine ) is believed to derive from the English pudding `` a person or thing resembling a pudding '' or `` stout , thick-set person '' .
In the county culture especially , a mixed fry can also come with cooked ground beef on top and is referred to as a hamburger mix , though this is less popular than a regular mix .
In Prince Edward Island , a common dish is `` Fries with the Works '' which is fries with ground beef and onions , topped with thick beef gravy and fresh green peas .
Disco Fries , also known as `` Elvis Fries , '' served in New Jersey and select New York City diners , are made with brown gravy , mozzarella , and heavier steak fries .
Poutine is common in chip shops , and other small , local fast food stores and consists of thick-cut chips , shredded cheddar cheese ( and sometimes a 50/50 mix of cheddar and mozzarella cheese ) , topped with thick gravy .
In the Netherlands , Poutine consists of french fries , shawarma meats or doner kebab , and grilled gouda cheese , topped with salad , garlic sauce and sambal .
Achillea millefolium , known commonly as yarrow or common yarrow , is a flowering plant in the family Asteraceae .
Several , including ` Kelwayi ' , and ` Lansdorferglut ' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society 's Award of Garden Merit .
The many hybrids of this species designated Achillea x taygetea are useful garden subjects , including : ` Appleblossom ' , ` Fanal ' , ` Hoffnung ' , and ` Moonshine ' Achillea millefolium , Achillea millefolium , is considered an especially useful companion plant , repelling some insect pests while attracting good , predatory ones .
The dark blue essential oil , extracted by steam distillation of the flowers , is generally used as an anti-inflammatory or in chest rubs for colds and influenza .
Yarrow , Achillea millefolium and Achillea millefolium North American varieties , was used in traditional Native American herbal medicine by tribes across the continent .
Other plants with white flowers in large compound umbels may be confused with Achillea millefolium , these include : water parsnip -- Sium suave ( swamp parsnip ) ; western water hemlock -- Cicuta douglasii ( poison hemlock ) ; and spotted water hemlock -- Cicuta maculata ( spotted parsley , spotted cowbane ) .
In 1634 , Berkeley Plantation became part of the first eight shires of Virginia , as Charles City County , one of the oldest in the United States , and is located along Virginia State Route 5 , which runs parallel to the river 's northern borders past sites of many of the James River Plantations between the colonial capital city of Williamsburg ( now the site of Colonial Williamsburg ) and the capital of the Commonwealth of Virginia at Richmond .
Harrison 's son , Benjamin Harrison V , a signer of the American Declaration of Independence and a Governor of Virginia , was born at Berkeley Plantation , as was his son William Henry Harrison , a war hero in the Battle of Tippecanoe , governor of Indiana Territory , and ninth President of the United States .
His son , Malcolm Jamieson ( who bought out the interests of other heirs after John 's death ) , and Malcolm 's wife , Grace , restored the manor , which had been in deteriorating condition .
Low comedy , in association to comedy , is a dramatic or literary form of entertainment with no primary purpose but to create laughter by boasting , boisterous jokes , drunkenness , scolding , fighting , buffoonery and other riotous activity .
Over time as low comedy began to include lewd jokes and more physical comedy , more mainstream performers began to practice this type of comedy : stand-up comedians , musicals , etc.
This idea explains why low comedy is well known and popular today , because Low comedy is considered suitable for all individuals .
The Electoral ( Amendment ) Act 2009 defines the County Waterford constituency as `` The county of Waterford , except the part thereof which is comprised in the constituency of Tipperary South ; and the city of County Waterford '' '' .
This is both a means of communication to signal possession of territory to Picinae rivals , and a method of locating and accessing insect larvae found under the bark or in long winding tunnels in the tree or upright log .
Strong neck and tail-feather muscles , and a chisel-like bill are other hammering adaptations which are seen in most species .
Picinae has few shock-absorbing adaptations , and prefers to feed on the ground or to chip away at rotting wood and bark , habits observed in birds outside of the woodpecker family .
Used widely throughout the Indian subcontinent , Sitar became known in the western world through the work of Ravi Shankar beginning in the late 1950s and early 1960s after the Kinks ' top 10 single `` See My Friends '' featured a low tuned drone guitar which was widely mistaken to be Sitar .
Six or seven of these are played strings which run over curved , raised frets , and the remainder are sympathetic strings ( tarb , also known as taarif or tarafdaar ) which run underneath the frets and resonate in sympathy with the played strings .
The played strings run to tuning pegs on or near the head of Sitar , while the sympathetic strings , which are a variety of different lengths , pass through small holes in the fretboard to engage with the smaller tuning pegs that run down Sitar neck .
Most notable are older Rikhi Ram ( Delhi ) and older Hiren Roy ( Kolkata ) sitars depending upon which master built Sitar .
The tonic in the Indian solfège system is referred to as ṣaḍja , ṣaḍaj , or the shortened form sa , or khaṛaj , a dialectal variant of ṣaḍaj , not as vād , and the perfect fifth to which one or more of the drones strings are tuned is referred to as pañcam , not samvād .
Sitar is balanced between the player 's left foot and right knee .
Generally only the index and middle fingers are used for fingering although a few players occasionally use the third .
A specialized technique called `` meend '' involves pulling the main melody string down over the bottom portion of the sitar 's curved frets , with which Sitar can achieve a seven semitone range of microtonal notes ( it should be noted , however , that because of the sitar 's movable frets , sometimes a fret may be set to a microtone already , and no bending would be required ) .
Romanos III Argyros ( or Romanus III Argyrus ) ( , Rōmanos III Argyros ) ( 968 -- 11 April 1034 ) was Byzantine emperor from 15 November 1028 until Romanos III Argyros death .
Romanos Argyros was the son of an unnamed member of the Argyros family and a great-grandson of Romanos Romanos III Argyros Lekapenos .
Romanos III Argyros spent large sums upon new buildings and in endowing the monks , and in Romanos III Argyros endeavour to relieve the pressure of taxation disorganized the finances of the state .
It is listed on ISO-3166-2 as one of the four provinces of Ireland and `` IE-C '' is attributed to Connacht as Connacht country sub-division code .
The largest island in Connacht , and the island of Ireland , is Achill .
Sites such as the Céide Fields , Knocknarea , Listoghil , Carrowkeel Megalithic Cemetery and Rathcroghan , all demonstrate intensive occupation of Connacht far back into prehistory .
Connacht instead comprised dozens of major and minor túath ; rulers of larger túath ( Maigh Seóla , Uí Maine , Aidhne and Máenmaige ) were accorded high kingly status , while peoples such as the Gailenga , Corco Moga and Senchineoil were lesser peoples given the status of Déisi .
Older nations such as the Auteini and Nagnatae - recorded by Ptolemy ( c. AD 90 -- c. 168 ) in Geography - gave way to dynastic hereditary rule .
As evidenced by kings such as Mac Cairthinn mac Coelboth ( died 446 ) and Ailill Molt ( died c. 482 ) , even by the 5th century the gens was giving way to kinship all over Ireland , as both men were identified as of the Uí Enechglaiss and Uí Fiachrach dynasties , not of tribes .
Though the Ó Cellaigh 's were never elevated to the provincial kingship , Ui Maine existed as a semi-independent kingdom both before and after the demise of the Connacht kingship .
Tairrdelbach was highly innovative , building the first stone castles in Ireland , and more controversially , introducing the policy of primogeniture to a hostile Gaelic polity .
Castles were built in the 1120s at Galway ( where he based his fleet ) , Dunmore , Sligo and Ballinasloe , where he dug a new six-mile canal to divert the river Suck around the castle of Dun Ló .
Ruaidrí died at Cong in 1198 , noted as the annals as late `` King of Connacht and of All Ireland , both the Irish and the English '' .
Connacht merchant families , The Tribes of Galway , traded within Ireland , as well as Britain , France and Spain till it was reckoned one of Ireland 's most eminent towns .
They however remained devout Catholics , which displeased the Anglo-Irish administration , and later , the House of Stuart .
All of Connacht lordships remained in states of full or semi-independence from other Gaelic-Irish and Anglo-Irish rulers till the late 16th century , when the Tudor conquest of Ireland ( c. 1534 -- 1603 ) brought all under the direct rule of King James I of England .
Connacht was mainly at peace between 1691 and 1798 .
Historical references to Connacht are generally accepted from the early 6th century onwards , commencing with the battle of Claenloch between the Ui Fiachrach Aidhne and the Ui Maine .
Tor and Crioslach and Usban and Gotmann and Allgot settled in Connacht , according to Dubhaltach Mac Fhirbhisigh ( 768.4 , pp.44-45 , volume III , leabhar na nGenealach ) .
Romanos ( or Romanus ) IV Diogenes ( Greek : Ρωμανός Δ΄ Διογένης , Rōmanos IV Diogenēs ) was a member of the Byzantine military aristocracy who , after Romanos IV Diogenes marriage to the widowed empress Eudokia Makrembolitissa , was crowned Byzantine emperor and reigned from 1068 to 1071 .
The problem Romanus and Eudokia had in executing this plan was that Eudokia 's deceased husband , Constantine X , had made her swear an oath never to remarry .
Romanos IV Diogenes ordered a relief fleet to set sail , containing sufficient provisions and troops to enable them to hold out for much longer .
Romanos IV Diogenes preoccupation with the military had also made Romanos IV Diogenes unpopular with the provincial governors and the military hierarchy , as Romanos IV Diogenes was determined to ensure they could not abuse their positions , especially through corrupt practices .
Romanos , in return , offered to officially exchange Manzikert and Archesh for Hieropolis in Syria , which Romanos had taken three years previously .
Just three species are present in the New World : Wood Stork , Maguari Stork and Jabiru , which is the largest flying bird of the Americas .
Though both are similar in appearance and have similar ecological roles , the New World and Old World vultures evolved from different ancestors in different parts of the world and are not closely related .
It is listed on ISO-3166-2 as one of the four provinces of Ireland and `` IE-L '' is attributed to Leinster as Leinster country sub-division code .
Finn Mac Cool , or Fionn mac Cumhaill , was reputed to have built a stronghold at the Hill of Allen , on the edge of the Bog of Allen , in what was then Leinster .
The last major boundary changes occurred with the formation of County Wicklow ( 1603 -- 1606 ) , from lands in the north of Carlow ( which previously extended to the sea ) and most of southern Dublin .
Though the female and the male look alike , Locust can be distinguished by looking at the end of Locust abdomens .
In English the term `` locust '' is used for grasshopper species that change morphologically and behaviorally on crowding , forming swarms that develop from bands of immature stages called hoppers .
Locust also are referred to as statary and migratory morphs ( though strictly speaking their swarms are nomadic rather than migratory ) .
Plagues of Locust appear in both the Bible and the Quran , including one of the biblical Plagues of Egypt , where Locust ate all the crops of Egypt .
The word `` locust '' is derived from the Vulgar Latin locusta , which was originally used to refer to various types of crustaceans and insects ; English `` lobster '' is derived from Anglo-Saxon loppestre , which may come from Latin locusta .
Spanish has mostly preserved the original Latin usage , since the cognate term langosta can be used to refer both to a variety of lobster-like crustaceans and to the swarming grasshopper , while semantic confusion is avoided by employing qualifiers such as de la tierra ( of the land ) when referring to grasshoppers , Del mar and Del Rio ( of the sea/of the river ) when referring to lobsters and crayfish , respectively .
French presents an inverse case ; during the 16th century , the word sauterelle ( literally `` little hopper '' ) could mean either grasshopper or lobster ( sauterelle de mer ) .
In contemporary French usage , langouste is used almost exclusively to refer to the crustacean ( two insect exceptions being the langouste de désert and the langouste de Provence ) .
Often , the linguistic non-differentiation of animals not only regarded by science as different species , but that also often exist in radically different environments , is the result of culturally perceived similarities between organisms , as well as of abstract associations formed within a particular group 's mythology and folklore ( see Cicada mythology ) .
Even Islamic and Jewish dietary laws , which prohibit the consumption of other insects , allow Locust to be eaten , particularly as famine foods for the poor .
John was a pious and dedicated monarch who was determined to undo the damage John II Komnenos empire had suffered following the battle of Manzikert , half a century earlier .
In an effort to demonstrate the Byzantine ideal of the emperor 's role as the leader of the Christian world , John marched into Muslim Syria at the head of the combined forces of Byzantium and the Crusader states ; yet despite the great vigour with which John II Komnenos pressed the campaign , John 's hopes were disappointed by the treachery of John II Komnenos Crusader allies , who deliberately failed to fight against their common Muslim enemies at the crucial moment .
In particular little is known of the history of John 's domestic rule or policies .
This was a radical departure from the methods of John II Komnenos father , who had used the imperial family and its many connections to fill almost all senior administrative and military posts .
Emperor Alexios had thought John II Komnenos a good companion for John II Komnenos son , and so John II Komnenos had been brought up alongside the prince in the imperial household .
This was an unofficial position known at the time as the mesazon , and equivalent to a vizier or ` prime-minister ' .
Pope Innocent II , with the Church 's possessions in Italy under threat by Roger II , who supported Antipope Anacletus II , was also party to the alliance of Lothair and John II .
John II Komnenos organised a number of disputations between Greek and Latin theologians .
John , alongside John II Komnenos wife who shared in John II Komnenos religious and charitable works , is known to have undertaken church building on a considerable scale , including construction of the Monastery of Christ Pantokrator ( Zeyrek Mosque ) in Constantinople .
John II , and Axouch the Grand Domestic , recaptured Laodicea and Sozopolis , thus re-opening land communication with Antalya .
This route was especially important as it also led to Cilicia and the Crusader states of Syria Following the end of hostilities with Hungary John was able to concentrate on Asia Minor , which became the focus of John II Komnenos attention for most of John II Komnenos remaining years .
In order to restore the region to Byzantine control , John led a series of well planned and executed campaigns against the Turks , one of which resulted in the reconquest of the ancestral home of the Komnenoi at Kastamonu ( Kastra Komnenon ) , John II Komnenos then left a garrison of 2,000 men at Gangra .
This opened the route to the Principality of Antioch , where Raymond of Poitiers , Prince of Antioch , and Joscelin II , Count of Edessa , recognized themselves John II Komnenos vassals in 1137 .
King Fulk of Jerusalem , fearing that the emperor 's presence with overwhelming military force would constrain John II Komnenos to make an act of homage and formally recognise Byzantine suzerainty over John II Komnenos kingdom , begged the emperor to bring only a modest escort .
John is recorded as citing two main reasons for choosing Manuel over John II Komnenos older brother Isaac : these were Isaac 's irascibility , and the courage that Manuel had shown on campaign at Neocaesareia .
States and territories with borders on the sea ( clockwise from north ) include : the People 's Republic of China ( including Macau and Hong Kong ) , the Republic of China ( Taiwan ) , the Philippines , Malaysia , Brunei , Indonesia , Singapore , Thailand , Cambodia , and Vietnam .
The relative shear between Indochina and China caused South China Sea to open .
Since opening the South China Sea has been the repository of large sediment volumes delivered by the Mekong River , Red River and Pearl River .
Both People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) and the Republic of China ( ROC ) claim almost the entire body as their own , demarcating their claims within what is known as the nine-dotted line , which claims overlap with virtually every other country in the region .
ASEAN in general , and Malaysia in particular , has been keen to ensure that the territorial disputes within South China Sea do not escalate into armed conflict .
On July 22 , 2011 , one of India 's amphibious assault vessels , the INS Airavat which was on a friendly visit to Vietnam , was reportedly contacted at a distance of 45 nautical miles from the Vietnamese coast in the disputed South China Sea on an open radio channel by a vessel identifying itself as the Chinese Navy and stating that the ship was entering Chinese waters .
India supports freedom of navigation in international waters , including in South China Sea , and the right of passage in accordance with accepted principles of international law .
Theophilos (emperor) was the second emperor of the Phrygian dynasty and the last emperor to support iconoclasm .
In 836 , after the expiration of the 20-year peace treaty between the Empire and Bulgaria , Theophilos (emperor) ravaged the Bulgarian frontier .
Vlastimir of Serbia united several tribes , and Theophilos (emperor) granted the Serbs independence ; Vlastimir acknowledged nominal overlordship of the Emperor .
Theophilos (emperor) character has been the subject of considerable discussion , some regarding Theophilos (emperor) as one of the best Byzantine Emperors , others as an ordinary and not a particularly significant ruler .
There is no doubt that Theophilos (emperor) did Theophilos (emperor) best to check corruption and oppression on the part of Theophilos (emperor) officials , and that Theophilos (emperor) administered justice with strict impartiality .
Despite the drain of the war in Asia and the large sums spent by Theophilos (emperor) on building , commerce , and industry , the finances of the Empire flourished , largely due to highly efficient administration .
Theophilos (emperor) is the second emperor of the Phrygian dynasty and the last emperor to support iconoclasm .
Theophilos (emperor) is the son of the Byzantine Emperor Michael II and his wife Thekla , and the godson of Emperor Leo V the Armenian .
The Volkswagen Kübelwagen ( literally translated as `` tub truck '' , for Volkswagen Kübelwagen resemblance to a metal bathtub on wheels ) was a light military vehicle designed by Ferdinand Porsche and built by Volkswagen during World War II for use by the German military ( both Wehrmacht and Waffen-SS ) .
Although Adolf Hitler discussed with Ferdinand Porsche the possibility of military application of the Volkswagen as early as April 1934 , it was not until January 1938 , that high-ranking Third Reich army officials formally approached Porsche about designing an inexpensive , light-weight military transport vehicle that could be operated reliably both on - and off-road in even the most extreme conditions , suggesting that the Beetle could provide the basis for such a vehicle .
Volkswagen Kübelwagen light weight and ZF self-locking differential compensated for the lack of 4 × 4 capabilities .
Further development of the Type 62 took place during 1939 , including a more angular body design ; and pre-production models were field-tested in the invasion of Poland that started in September that year .
Revised dampers , 41 cm wheels and a limited slip differential , as well as countless small modifications completed the specification .
Most notably -- thanks to Volkswagen Kübelwagen smooth , flat underbody -- the Kübel would propel Volkswagen Kübelwagen much like a motorised sled when Volkswagen Kübelwagen wheels were sinking into sand , snow or mud , allowing Volkswagen Kübelwagen to follow tracked vehicles with remarkable tenacity .
Although Irene of Athens was an orphan , Irene of Athens uncle , Constantine Sarantapechos , was a patrician and possibly strategos of the theme of Hellas .
Irene of Athens negotiated a marriage between Irene of Athens son and Rotrude , a daughter of Charlemagne by his third wife Hildegard .
Irene next had to subdue a rebellion led by Elpidius , the strategos of Sicily , whose family was tortured and imprisoned when a fleet was sent , which succeeded in defeating the Sicilians .
Natural History (Pliny) is the only work by Pliny to have survived and the last that he published , lacking a final revision at the time of his death during the AD 79 eruption of Vesuvius .
After an initial survey of cosmology and geography , Pliny starts his treatment of animals with the human race , `` for whose sake great nature appears to have created all other things '' .
These monstrous races -- the Cynocephali or Dog-Heads , the Sciapodae , whose single foot could act as a sunshade , the mouthless Astomi , who lived on scents -- were not strictly new .
Natural History (Pliny) was one of the first ancient texts to be printed , in 1469 , and over two hundred editions had been produced by the end of the nineteenth century .
The work was probably published with little revision by the author 's nephew Pliny the Younger , who , when telling the story of a tame dolphin and describing the floating islands of the Vadimonian Lake thirty years later , has apparently forgotten that both are to be found in his uncle 's work .
Among the later manuscripts , the codex Vesontinus , formerly at Besançon ( 11th century ) , has been divided into three portions , now in Rome , Paris , and Leiden respectively , while there is also a transcript of the whole of this manuscript at Leiden .
Despite , or perhaps because of , the multiplicity of texts in circulation , many were in a poor state.What would Cicero , or Livy , or the other great men of the past , Natural History (Pliny) above all , think if they could return to life and read their own works ?
Philemon Holland 's much improved translation of 1601 and further versions multiplied as Pliny 's reputation grew during the Renaissance .
He critically notes the following of perfumes : `` Perfumes are the most pointless of luxuries , for pearls and jewels are at least passed on the one 's heirs , and clothes last for a time , but perfumes lose their fragrance and perish as soon as Natural History (Pliny) are used '' .
Other substances added include myrrh , cinnamon , and balsam gum .
The keeping of aquaria was a popular pastime of the rich , and Natural History (Pliny) provides several amusing anecdotes of the problems of owners becoming too closely attached to their fishes .
Natural History (Pliny) has an extensive discussion of metals including gold , silver , copper , mercury , lead , tin and iron , as well as their many alloys such as electrum , bronze , pewter , and steel .
Natural History (Pliny) is probably referring to the reverse overshot water-wheels operated by treadmill and found in Roman mines in the 1920s as discussed below .
Britain , he says , is very rich in lead , which is found on the surface at many places , and thus very easy to extract ; production was so high that a law was passed attempting to restrict mining .
The topic concentrates on the most valuable gemstones , because Natural History (Pliny) gives him yet another opportunity to criticize the obsession with luxury products such as engraved gems and hardstone carvings .
Natural History (Pliny) returns to the problem of fraud and the detection of false gems using several tests , including the scratch test , where counterfeit gems can be marked by a steel file , and genuine ones not .
Natural History (Pliny) is also a source for some interesting devices and machines used in cultivation and processing the crops .
For a number of items relating to works of art near the coast of Asia Minor and in the adjacent islands , Natural History (Pliny) was indebted to the general , statesman , orator and historian Gaius Licinius Mucianus , who died before 77 .
Natural History (Pliny) mentions the works of art collected by Vespasian in the Temple of Peace and in his other galleries ( xxxiv .
Natural History (Pliny) shows the Trojan priest Laocoön and his sons Antiphantes and Thymbraeus being strangled by sea serpents .
Field work has also established the extensive use of hydraulic mining to prospect for gold by construction of several aqueducts and many water reservoirs and tanks at the minehead , just as Natural History (Pliny) describes .
Natural History (Pliny) describes methods of underground mining , including the use of fire-setting to attack the gold-bearing rock and so extract the ore .
Natural History (Pliny) involved creating a fire against a hard rock working to weaken Natural History (Pliny) sufficiently to be able to remove Natural History (Pliny) effectively , followed by quenching with water or vinegar .
His description of construction of the aqueducts needed to prospect for gold-bearing ore by removing overburden and work the alluvial deposits bears the hallmarks of the eyewitness , and he served as Procurator in northern Hispania when the region , in 73 AD , was experiencing a gold rush .
Because of a curious disease of the human mind , Natural History (Pliny) pleases us to enshrine in history records of bloodshed and slaughter , so that those ignorant of the facts of the world may become acquainted with the crimes of mankind .
Natural History (Pliny) is a source for some interesting devices and machines used in cultivation and processing the crops .
Natural History (Pliny) is a compilation ultimately founded on the lost textbooks of Xenocrates and on the biographies of Duris and Antigonus .
Born into the Macedonian dynasty that had ruled the Byzantine Empire for almost two hundred years , Theodora (11th century) was co-empress with Theodora (11th century) sister Zoe for two months in 1042 and sole empress from 11 January 1055 to 31 August 1056 .
Theodora (11th century) was the youngest daughter of the Byzantine Emperor Constantine VIII and Helena , daughter of Alypius .
Secondly , Theodora (11th century) claimed that since Romanos and Theodora (11th century) were third cousins , it was too close a blood relationship for marriage to occur .
At an assembly at Hagia Sophia , the people escorted a furious Theodora from Petrion , and proclaimed Theodora (11th century) empress along with Zoe .
Although Theodora (11th century) Theodora (11th century) appeared together at meetings of the Senate , or when they gave public audiences , it was soon apparent that their joint reign was under considerable strain .
Although officially Theodora and Zoe continued to be recognised as empresses and Theodora continued to appear at all official functions , all power devolved onto Theodora (11th century) brother-in-law .
This led to a popular uprising by the citizens of Constantinople in 1044 , which was only quietened by the appearance of Zoe and Theodora (11th century) at a balcony , who reassured the mob that they were not in any danger of assassination .
Having no children and being the last member of Theodora (11th century) dynasty , Theodora (11th century) had chosen one of Theodora (11th century) favorites , the former military finance minister , Michael VI Bringas , as Theodora (11th century) successor on the recommendation of Theodora (11th century) chief minister , Leo Paraspondylos .
Theodora (11th century) is the youngest daughter of the Byzantine Emperor Constantine VIII and Helena , daughter of Alypius .
In Vancouver 2010 , four athletes -- Catriona LeMay Doan , Wayne Gretzky , Steve Nash and Nancy Greene -- were given the honor of lighting Olympic Flame simultaneously ( indoor ) before Wayne Gretzky transferred Olympic Flame to an outdoor cauldron at Vancouver 's waterfront .
Two years later , at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London , seven young athletes-Callum Airlie , Jordan Duckitt , Desiree Henry , Katie Kirk , Cameron MacRitchie , Aidan Reynolds and Adelle Tracey-were given the honor to light the flame on one of 204 copper petals before converging to form the cauldron for the Games .
Olympic Flame , but not the flame , was taken into space by astronauts in 1996 and 2000 .
The torch used for the final entry to the stadium and the lighting of the cauldron was of a different design , also a feature that would re-appear in later years .
The number of torches made has varied from , for example , 22 for Helsinki in 1952 , 6,200 for the 1980 Moscow Games and 8,000 for the London 2012 Games .
Thus , the fires contained in the torches and Olympic cauldrons all trace a common lineage back to the same Olympia lighting ceremony .
Theodoros I Komnenos Laskaris ( , Theodōros I Laskaris ) ( c. 1174/1175 -- 1221/August , 1222 ) was Emperor of Nicaea ( 1204 -- 1221 or 1205 -- 1222 ) .
Miller identified said sister with the wife of Marco I Sanudo and mother of Angelo Sanudo .
In 1198/9 , Theodore married Anna Angelina , daughter of the Byzantine Emperor Alexios III Angelos and Euphrosyne Doukaina Kamatera .
At first Theodore did not claim the imperial title , perhaps because Theodore I Laskaris father-in-law and Theodore I Laskaris brother were both still living , perhaps because of the imminent Latin invasion , or perhaps because there was no Patriarch of Constantinople to crown him Emperor .
The eldest was Isaakios Doukas Vatatzes ( died 1261 ) , who married and had two children : Ioannes Vatatzes ( born 1215 ) , who married to Eudokia Angelina and had two daughters Theodora Doukaina Vatatzaina , wife of Michael VIII Palaiologos , and Maria Vatatzaina , married to Michael Doukas Glabas Tarchaneiotes , Military Goveror of Thrace ; and a daughter , married to Konstantinos Strategopoulos .
In spite of some reverses against the Latin Empire in 1240 , John III was able to take advantage of Ivan Asen II 's death in 1241 to impose John III Doukas Vatatzes own suzerainty over Thessalonica ( in 1242 ) , and later to annex this city , as well as much of Bulgarian Thrace in 1246 .
Presbyter ( Greek πρεσβύτερος , presbuteros : `` elder '' , or `` priest '' in Christian usage ) in the New Testament refers to a leader in local Christian congregations , then often not clearly distinguished from episkopos , presbyter referring to ordinary priests or elders and episkopos referring exclusively to the full order or office of bishop .
The Roman Catholic Church , the Orthodox Church , the non-Chalcedonian churches and similar groups typically refer to presbyters in English as priests ( priest is etymologically derived from the Greek presbyteros via the Latin presbyter ) .
The flowers are small , purple-brown , and , being wind-pollinated , are apetalous ; Ulmus americana emerge in early spring before the leaves .
For example , in Central Park and Tompkins Square Park in New York City , stands of several large elms originally planted by Frederick Law Olmsted survive because of their isolation from neighboring areas in New York where there had been heavy mortality .
Elms have been able to survive and to reproduce in areas where the disease had eliminated old trees , although most of these young elms eventually succumb to the disease at a relatively young age .
Although the European elm bark beetle is known to have occurred across southern and central Alberta , Ulmus americana does not appear to be carrying the disease in these areas .
Some cities such as Kansas City , Missouri , had used mostly American elms in planting Ulmus americana city streets and had had some of the finest shaded residential streets in the nation , until the disease almost obliterated these plantings in the late 1960s and early 1970s .
Ohio botanist William B. Werthner , discussing the contrast between open-grown and forest-grown American elms , noted that : In the open , with an abundance of air and light , the main trunk divides into several leading branches which leave the trunk at a sharp angle and continue to grow upward , gradually diverging , dividing and subdividing into long , flexible branchlets whose ends , at last , float lightly in the air , giving the tree a round , somewhat flattened top of beautifully regular proportions and characteristically fine twiggery .
American elms have been planted in North America beyond Ulmus americana natural range as far north as central Alberta , and south to Lake Worth , Florida .
Wood from the tree was made into furniture , canes , walking sticks and various trinkets that Philadelphians kept as relics .
The tree , an American white elm , became a celebrated attraction , with Ulmus americana own plaque , a fence constructed around Ulmus americana and a road moved in order to help preserve Ulmus americana .
A Harvard `` professor of plant anatomy '' examined the tree rings days after the tree was felled and pronounced Ulmus americana between 204 and 210 years old , making Ulmus americana at most 62 years old when Washington took command of the troops at Cambridge .
Ulmus americana , located in a parking lot directly across the street from the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City , OK , survived a terrorist bombing on April 19 , 1995 that killed 168 people and destroyed the building .
The nobility and arching grace of the American elm in Ulmus americana heyday , on farms , in villages , in towns and on campuses , were celebrated in the books of photographs of Wallace Nutting ( Massachusetts Beautiful , N.Y.
John V Palaiologos ( or Palaeologus ) ( , Iōannēs V Palaiologos ) ( 18 June 1332 -- 16 February 1391 ) was a Byzantine emperor , who succeeded John V Palaiologos father in 1341 , at age nine .
John V appealed to the West for help , proposing to end the schism between the Byzantine and Latin churches by submitting the patriarchate to the supremacy of Rome .
Christopher Columbus was one of the first Europeans to encounter them ( in the Caribbean ) , and called them `` peppers '' because they , like black and white pepper of the Piper genus known in Europe , have a spicy hot taste unlike other foodstuffs .
Diego Álvarez Chanca , a physician on Columbus ' second voyage to the West Indies in 1493 , brought the first chili peppers to Spain and first wrote about their medicinal effects in 1494 .
Chili pepper journeyed from India , through Central Asia and Turkey , to Hungary , where it became the national spice in the form of paprika .
Green and red bell peppers , for example , are the same cultivar of C. annuum , immature peppers being green .
When consumed , capsaicinoids bind with pain receptors in the mouth and throat that are responsible for sensing heat .
Chili pepper pods , which are berries , are used fresh or dried .
Some states in India , such as Rajasthan , make entire dishes only by using spices and Chili pepper .
Fresh or dried Chili pepper are often used to make hot sauce , a bottled condiment to add spice to other dishes .
Yellow and especially green chilies ( which are essentially unripe fruit ) contain a considerably lower amount of both substances .
The name of the plant bears no relation to Chile , the country , which is named after the Quechua chin ( `` cold '' ) , tchili ( `` snow '' ) , or chilli ( `` where the land ends '' ) .
During this period , the empire , already broken up and reduced to narrow limits , was assailed on every side .
Kantakouzenos was far too ready to invoke the aid of foreigners in John VI Kantakouzenos European quarrels ; and as John VI Kantakouzenos had no money to pay them , this gave them a ready pretext for seizing upon a European town .
It possesses the merit of being well arranged and homogenous , the incidents being grouped round the chief actor in the person of the author , but the information is defective on matters with which John VI Kantakouzenos is not directly concerned .
At the time of these events this also was a private company dealing in national debt , and the crash of South Sea Company rival consolidated South Sea Company position as banker to the British government .
Edward Harley and John Blunt together had devised a scheme to consolidate this debt in a similar manner to that previously performed by the Bank of England , although the Bank still held the monopoly on operating as a bank .
This allowed anyone with advance knowledge to buy debt cheap and sell at an immediate profit , and made South Sea Company possible for Harley to bring further financial supporters into the scheme , such as James Bateman and Theodore Janssen .
Two thirds were to be male , and 90 % adult .
South Sea Company was heavily dependent on the goodwill of government and so , when government changed , so too did the company board .
Queen Anne died 1 August 1714 and at the election of directors in 1715 the Prince of Wales ( future King George II ) was elected as Governor of South Sea Company .
The new King , George I and the Prince of Wales both had significant holdings in South Sea Company .
James Cragg , as Postmaster General , was responsible for intercepting mail on behalf of the government to obtain political and financial information .
Whigs , Horatio Townshend , brother in law of Robert Walpole and the Duke of Argyll were elected directors .
By the time of the next director 's elections in 1718 politics had changed again , with a schism within the Whigs between Walpole 's faction supporting the Prince of Wales and James Stanhope 's supporting the King .
In November 1718 Sub-Governor Bateman and Deputy Governor Shepheard both died .
Any prospect of profit from trade , for which the company had purchased ships and had been planning South Sea Company next ventures , disappeared .
A Scottish economist and financier , John Law , exiled after killing a man in a duel , had travelled around Europe before settling in France .
The 1719 scheme was a distinct success from the government 's perspective and South Sea Company sought to repeat South Sea Company .
Money was moving around Europe , and other flotations threatened to soak up available capital ( two insurance schemes in December 1719 each sought to raise # 3 million ) .
The share price had risen from the time the scheme was proposed : from # 128 in January 1720 , to # 175 in February , # 330 in March and , following the scheme 's acceptance , to # 550 at the end of May .
Amongst the bubble companies investigated were two supported by Lords Onslow and Chetwynd respectively , for insuring shipping .
However , the schemes had the support of Walpole and Craggs , so that the larger part of the Bubble act ( which finally resulted in June 1720 from the committee 's investigations ) was devoted to creating charters for the Royal Exchange Assurance Corporation and the London Assurance Corporation .
Furthermore , the scramble for liquidity appeared internationally as `` bubbles '' were also ending in Amsterdam and Paris .
The South Seas Company 's charter ( of 1711 ) provided it with exclusive access to all of Middle and South America .
Furthermore , when ties between Spain and Britain deteriorated in 1718 the short-term prospects of South Sea Company were very poor .
Despite problems with speculation , the South Sea Company was relatively successful at slave trading and meeting South Sea Company quota ( it was unusual for other , similarly chartered companies to fulfill South Sea Company quotas ) .
According to records compiled by David Eltis and others , during the course of 96 voyages in twenty-five years , South Sea Company purchased 34,000 slaves of whom 30,000 survived the voyages across the Atlantic .
The British Parliament confirmed that a British Arctic `` whale-fishery '' would continue to benefit by freedom from Customs duties and in 1724 South Sea Company decided to commence whaling .
They had 12 whale-ships built on the River Thames and these went to the Greenland seas in 1725 .
At this time there were hardly any experienced whalemen remaining in Britain and the Company had to engage Dutch and Danish whalemen for the key posts aboard their ships , e.g.
This , and the subsequent Acts , required the whalers to meet conditions regarding the crewing and equipping of the whale-ships that closely resembled the conditions suggested by Elking in 1722 .
In spite of the extended duty-free concessions , and the prospect of real subsidies as well , the Court and Directors of the South Sea Company decided that South Sea Company could not expect to make profits from Arctic whaling .
A tailplane , also known as horizontal stabilizer ( or horizontal stabiliser ) , is a small lifting surface located on the tail ( empennage ) behind the main lifting surfaces of a fixed-wing aircraft as well as other non-fixed-wing aircraft such as helicopters and gyroplanes .
On many flying wings such as the Fauvel AV .36 and tailless deltas such as the Dassault Mirage III , the downward force is instead provided by the trailing edge of the wing .
On some airplanes built before World War I , such as the Bleriot XI , the center of gravity is between the center of lift from the wings and the tailplane , which instead of providing a downward force , provided an upward one .
The advantage to this is a significant reduction in induced drag caused by Tailplane , and in the case of the F-16 , improved maneuverability .
( See main article , Stabilizer ( aircraft ) , for references ) An aeroplane with a conventional wing and no tailplane is normally unstable in pitch ( longitudinal instability ) .
Elevator In addition Tailplane helps adjust for changes in the center of lift , and center of gravity caused by changes in speed and attitude , or when fuel is burned off , or when cargo or payload is dropped from the aircraft .
Stabilators or all-moving tails In transonic flight shock waves generated by Tailplane render Tailplane unusable .
However , Mrs. Gaugain , in her 1840 The Lady 's Assistant for Executing Useful and Fancy Designs in Knitting , Netting , and Crotchet Work , refers to `` Tambour , or Crotchet , '' then proceeds to call Crochet `` tambour '' in all the instructions , indicating a strong connection believed in at the time of crochet 's beginning , and that Crochet was , perhaps , the older name .
Early crochet hooks ranged from primitive bent needles in a cork handle , used by poor Irish lace workers , to expensively crafted silver , brass , steel , ivory and bone hooks set into a variety of handles , some of which were better designed to show off a lady 's hands than Crochet were to work with thread .
Crochet laces in the new Edwardian era , peaking between 1910 and 1920 , became even more elaborate in texture and complicated stitching .
Filet crochet , Tunisian crochet , tapestry crochet , broomstick lace , hairpin lace , cro-hooking , and Irish crochet are all variants of the basic crochet method .
Crochet hooks used for Tunisian crochet are elongated and have a stopper at the end of the handle , while double-ended crochet hooks have a hook on both ends of the handle .
Skeins and balls are generally sold with a yarn band , a label that describes Crochet weight , length , dye lot , fiber content , washing instructions , suggested needle size , likely gauge , etc.
The thickness or weight of Crochet is a significant factor in determining the gauge , i.e. , how many stitches and rows are required to cover a given area for a given stitch pattern .
In general , yarns become stronger with more twist ( also called worst ) , longer fibers and thicker yarns ( more fibers ) ; for example , thinner yarns require more twist than do thicker yarns to resist breaking under tension .
In plying , two or more yarns are spun together , almost always in the opposite sense from which Crochet were spun individually ; for example , two Z-twist yarns are usually plied with an S-twist .
The single yarns may be dyed separately before plying , or afterwords to give Crochet a uniform look .
Many Crochet items are composed of individual motifs which are then joined together , are by sewing or crocheting , whereas knitting is usually composed of one fabric , such as entrelac .
The similarities to Base2 math , with Crochet series of 0s and 1s , are obvious .
Worldwide 0.05 -- 2 % of people are estimated to have anaphylaxis at some point in their life and rates appear to be increasing .
Anaphylaxis typically presents with many different symptoms over minutes or hours with an average onset of 5 to 30 minutes if exposure is intravenous and 2 hours for foods .
The most common areas affected include : skin ( 80 -- 90 % ) , respiratory ( 70 % ) , gastrointestinal ( 30 -- 45 % ) , heart and vasculature ( 10 -- 45 % ) , and central nervous system ( 10 -- 15 % ) with usually two or more being involved .
In Western cultures , ingestion of or exposure to peanuts , wheat , tree nuts , shellfish , fish , milk , and eggs are the most prevalent causes .
The frequency of a reaction to an agent partly depends on the frequency of Anaphylaxis use and partly on Anaphylaxis intrinsic properties .
Anaphylaxis to aspirin and NSAIDs occurs in about one in every 50,000 persons .
Skin allergy testing ( such as patch testing ) is available for certain foods and venoms .
Oral immunotherapy may be effective at desensitizing some people to certain food including milk , eggs , nuts and peanuts ; however adverse effects are common .
A period of in hospital observation for between 2 and 24 hours is recommended for people once Anaphylaxis have returned to normal due to concerns of biphasic anaphylaxis .
Antihistamines ( both H1 and H2 ) , while commonly used and assumed effective based on theoretical reasoning , are poorly supported by evidence .
Outcomes in those with exercise-induced anaphylaxis are typically good , with fewer and less severe episodes as people get older .
Enrico Mattei , who became a powerful figure in Italy , was a Christian Democrat , and a member of parliament from 1948 to 1953 .
Agip 's financial value immediately grew in the Stock Exchange markets , and the company ( owned by the State , but operating as a private company ) became at once solid and important .
The gas was not a mere substitute for imported oil , but a cheaper and more functional substitute for imported coal for the growing industrial activities of .
To opponents who charged that Enrico Mattei was helping Communists and making Italy dependent on a capricious flow from the Soviet Union , Mattei answered that Enrico Mattei bought from the cheapest sources .
In 1960 , after concluding the agreement with the Soviet Union and while negotiating with China , Enrico Mattei publicly declared that the American monopoly was over .
The reaction was initially mild , and Enrico Mattei ( ENI ) was invited to take part in the partition of the prospecting map in the Sahara .
Joan of Navarre, Queen of England ( c. 1370 -- 10 June 1437 ) was a Duchess consort of Brittany and a Queen consort of England .
According to the Encyclopædia Britannica , affection developed between Joanna and Henry Bolingbroke ( the future King Henry IV ) while he resided at the Breton court during his banishment from England .
Alfonso III ( c. 848 -- December 910 ) , called the Great , was the king of León , Galicia and Asturias from 866 until Alfonso III of León death .
Little is known about Alfonso except the bare facts of Alfonso III of León reign and of Alfonso III of León comparative success in consolidating the kingdom during the weakness of the Umayyad princes of Córdoba .
An electromagnetic coil ( or simply a `` coil '' ) is formed when a conductor ( usually an insulated solid copper wire ) is wound around a core or form to create an inductor or electromagnet .
For small power and signal applications , in which currents are low and the potential difference between adjacent turns is small , Coil are often wound from enamelled magnet wire , such as Formvar wire .
Each strand is individually insulated , and the strands are arranged so that at certain points in Coil , or throughout the whole winding , each portion occupies different relative positions in the complete conductor .
When this capacitance is problematic multiple layers are often replaced with a single layer , as in a pancake coil , or a solenoid with a single layer is used .
A coil tap is a wiring feature found on some electrical transformers , inductors and coil pickups , all of which are sets of wire coils .
Alfonso IV ( c. 890s -- 933 ) , called the Monk , was King of León from 925 ( or 926 ) and King of Galicia from 929 , until Alfonso IV of León abdicated in 931 .
One year later Alfonso IV of León took up arms with Fruela 's sons Ordoño and Ramiro against Alfonso IV of León own brother Ramiro , having repented of Alfonso IV of León renunciation of the world .
Upon Pac-Man release , the game -- and , subsequently , Pac-Man derivatives -- became a social phenomenon that sold a large amount of merchandise and also inspired , among other things , an animated television series and a top-ten hit single .
This corrupts the bottom of the screen and the entire right half of the maze with seemingly random symbols , making Pac-Man impossible to eat enough dots to beat the level .
Pac-Man was based on the concept of eating , and the original Japanese title was , inspired by the Japanese onomatopoeic slang phrase , where paku-paku describes ( the sound of ) the mouth movement when widely opened and then closed in succession .
Set in 1993 London , About a Boy (novel) features two main protagonists : Will Freeman , a 36-year-old bachelor , and Marcus Brewer , an incongruous schoolboy described as ` introverted ' by his suicidal mother , Fiona , despite his tendencies to bond and interact with people .
Will , a socially aware and `` trendy '' person , aids Marcus to fit into 1990s youth culture by encouraging him not to get his hair cut by his mother , buying him Adidas trainers , and introducing him to contemporary music such as Nirvana .
The novel ends during a three-way dialogue between Marcus , Will and Fiona where Will , to see if Marcus has truly changed , proposes the idea that he play a Joni Mitchell song on Fiona 's piano , which she immediately becomes enthusiastic of .
About a Boy (novel) removes any reference to the band Nirvana and Kurt Cobain .
The soundtrack to the film , including several full songs and numerous incidental pieces , was composed entirely by British singer-songwriter Badly Drawn Boy .
Ludmilla Tourischeva ( Russian : Людми́ла Ива́новна Тури́щева alternate spellings : Ludmilla Turischeva ; Ludmilla Tourischcheva ; Ljudmila Ivanovna Turichtchieva ; , born October 7 , 1952 in Grozny ) is a former Russian gymnast and a nine-time Olympic medalist for the Soviet Union .
This provoked the Second Civil War ( 1648 -- 49 ) and a second defeat for Charles I of England , who was subsequently captured , tried , convicted , and executed for high treason .
The monarchy was abolished and a republic called the Commonwealth of England , also referred to as the Cromwellian Interregnum , was declared .
The second son of King James VI of Scotland and Anne of Denmark , Charles I of England was born in Dunfermline Palace , Fife , on 19 November 1600 .
Eventually , Charles apparently conquered Charles I of England physical infirmity , which might have been caused by rickets , and grew to a peak height of 5 ft 4 .
Frederick 's acceptance of the crown in September 1619 marked the beginning of the turmoil that would develop into the Thirty Years ' War , which the English Parliament and public quickly grew to see as a polarised continental struggle between Catholics and Protestants .
James , who had been seeking marriage between the new Prince of Wales and the Spanish Habsburg Infanta , Maria Anna of Spain , began to see the Spanish Match as a possible diplomatic means of achieving peace in Europe .
Charles , like Charles I of England father , considered the discussion of Charles I of England marriage in the Commons impertinent and an infringement of Charles I of England father 's royal prerogative .
When Charles returned to London in October , without a bride and to a rapturous and relieved public welcome , Charles I of England and Buckingham pushed a reluctant King James to declare war on Spain .
James also requested that Parliament sanction the marriage between the Prince of Wales and a sister of Louis XIII of France , Henrietta Maria , whom Charles I of England had seen in Paris while en route to Spain .
In the Treaty of Berwick , Charles regained custody of Charles I of England Scottish fortresses and secured the dissolution of the Covenanters ' interim government , albeit at the decisive concession that both the Scottish Parliament and General Assembly of the Scottish Church were called .
By this stage Strafford , Lord Deputy of Ireland since 1632 , had emerged as Charles I of England right hand man and together with Laud , pursued a policy of `` Thorough '' that aimed to make central royal authority more efficient and effective at the expense of local or anti-government interests .
Various disputes between native and coloniser concerning a transference of land ownership from Catholic to Protestant , particularly in relation to the plantation of Ulster , coupled with the gradual overshadowing of the Irish Parliament by the English Parliament would sow the seeds of conflagration in Ireland that , despite its initial chaos , provide the catalyst for direct armed combat within England between royalists and parliamentarians .
The success of the trial against Strafford weakened Charles I of England influence in Ireland , whilst also providing a natural conduit for cooperation between the Gaelic Irish and Old English , who had hitherto been antagonistic towards one another .
Thus , in the conflict between the Gaelic Irish and New English settlers , in the Irish Rebellion of 1641 , the Old English sided with the Gaelic Irish whilst simultaneously professing their loyalty to Charles I of England .
However , news of the warrant reached Parliament ahead of Charles I of England , and the wanted men -- Pym , John Hampden , Denzil Holles , William Strode and Sir Arthur Haselrig -- slipped away by boat shortly before Charles entered the House of Commons with an armed guard on 4 January 1642 .
No English sovereign ever had ( or has since ) entered the House of Commons by force .
Hammond , however , confined Charles I of England in Carisbrooke Castle and informed Parliament that Charles I of England was in his custody .
Under the agreement , called the `` Engagement '' , the Scots undertook to invade England on Charles 's behalf and restore Charles I of England to the throne on condition of the establishment of Presbyterianism in England for three years .
The Rump Commons declared itself capable of legislating alone , abolished the upper house , passed a bill creating a court for Charles I of England trial , and declared the bill an act without the need for royal assent .
An estimated 300,000 people , or 6 % of the population , died during the war .
Only 68 ( all firm Parliamentarians ) attended Charles I of England trial on charges of high treason and `` other high crimes '' that began on 20 January 1649 in Westminster Hall .
The court , by contrast , proposed an interpretation of the law that legitimised the trial , which was founded on '' ... the fundamental proposition that the King of England was not a person , but an office whose every occupant was entrusted with a limited power to govern ` by and according to the laws of the land and not otherwise ' '' .
That morning , Charles I of England called for two shirts to prevent the cold weather causing any noticeable shivers that the crowd could have mistaken for fear or weakness : `` the season is so sharp as probably may make Charles I of England shake , which some observers may imagine proceeds from fear .
An Irishman named Gunning is widely believed to have beheaded Charles , and a plaque naming Charles I of England as the executioner is on show in the King 's Head pub in Galway , Ireland .
The Colony of Carolina in North America -- which later separated into North Carolina and South Carolina -- was named after Charles I of England , as was its major city of Charleston .
To the north in the Virginia Colony , Cape Charles , Charles River Shire and the Charles City Shire were all likewise named after Charles I of England , although the king personally named the Charles River .
Ralph Dutton says : `` In spite of Charles I of England intelligence and cultivation , Charles was curiously inept in Charles I of England contacts with human beings .
When he tries to bar the eponymous hero of the opera Siegfried from awakening Brünnhilde from her magic sleep , Siegfried breaks the spear in two and Wotan flees .
However , Constantine 's primary motivation for the trip was to `` forestall '' a rift between Rome and Constantinople over the Trullan decrees .
In physics , a frame of reference ( or reference frame ) may refer to a coordinate system used to represent and measure properties of objects such as Frame of reference position and orientation .
Alternatively , in relativity , the phrase can be used to refer to the relationship between a moving observer and the phenomenon or phenomena under observation .
An observational frame of reference , often referred to as a physical frame of reference , a frame of reference , or simply a frame , is a physical concept related to an observer and the observer 's state of motion .
Here we adopt the view expressed by Kumar and Barve : an observational frame of reference is characterized only by Frame of reference state of motion .
In special relativity , the distinction is sometimes made between an observer and Frame of reference .
In Newtonian mechanics , a more restricted definition requires only that Newton 's first law holds true ; that is , a Newtonian inertial frame is one in which a free particle travels in a straight line at constant speed , or is at rest .
In particle physics experiments , it is often useful to transform energies and momenta of particles from the lab frame where Frame of reference are measured , to the center of momentum frame `` COM frame '' in which calculations are sometimes simplified , since potentially all kinetic energy still present in the COM frame may be used for making new particles .
In this connection it may be noted that the clocks and rods often used to describe observers ' measurement equipment in thought , in practice are replaced by a much more complicated and indirect metrology that is connected to the nature of the vacuum , and uses atomic clocks that operate according to the standard model and that must be corrected for gravitational time dilation .
Modern historians suspect this maternal connection to be a genealogical fabrication created by Constantius Chlorus son Constantine Constantius Chlorus , and that Constantius Chlorus family were of humble origins .
Throughout 287 and into 288 , Constantius , under the command of Maximian , was involved in a war against the Alamanni , carrying out attacks on the territory of the barbarian tribes across the Rhine and Danube rivers .
Only when Constantius Chlorus felt ready ( and only when Maximian finally came to relieve Constantius Chlorus at the Rhine frontier ) did Constantius Chlorus assemble two invasion fleets with the intent of crossing the English Channel .
The campaign was avidly pursued by Galerius , who noticed that Constantius was well-disposed towards the Christians , and who saw it as a method of advancing Constantius Chlorus career prospects with the aging Diocletian .
Between 303 and 305 , Galerius began maneuvering to ensure that Constantius Chlorus would be in a position to take power from Constantius after the passing of Diocletian .
Eusebius 's Life of Constantine claims that Constantius was Constantius Chlorus a Christian , although Constantius Chlorus pretended to be a pagan , and while Caesar under Diocletian , took no part in the Emperor 's persecutions .
One favorite was Zheng He , who employed Yongle Emperor authority to launch major voyages of exploration into the South Pacific and Indian Oceans .
The difficulties in Nanjing also led Yongle Emperor to re-establish Beiping as another ( and primary ) capital , Beijing .
An alternate view , however , states that Zhu Di 's mother was a non-Han concubine of Yongle Emperor father 's , and that Ming records were changed during Yongle Emperor reign to list Yongle Emperor as a son of the Empress Ma , Zhu Yuanzhang 's primary consort , in order to permit Yongle Emperor succession on the `` death '' of the Jianwen Emperor .
Yongle Emperor father supplied nothing but the best education and , trusting them alone , reëstablished the old feudal principalities for Yongle Emperor many sons .
The Imperial Army was able to block Yongle Emperor at Huai'an and , given that three of Yongle Emperor sons were serving as hostages in the capital , the prince withdrew in disgrace .
Faced with certain hostility , the Prince of Yan `` fell ill '' and then `` went mad '' for a number of months before achieving Yongle Emperor aim of freeing Yongle Emperor sons from captivity to visit Yongle Emperor in the north in June 1399 .
On 5 August , the prince declared that Yongle Emperor nephew had fallen victim to `` evil counselors '' and that the Hongwu Emperor 's dynastic instructions obliged Yongle Emperor to rise in arms to remove them , a conflict known as the Jingnan Campaign .
and alone in Chinese history Yongle Emperor was sentenced to execution of 10 degrees of kinship : along with Yongle Emperor entire family , every former student or peer of Fang Xiaoru that the Yongle Emperor 's agents could find was also killed .
Due to the stress and overwhelming amount of thinking involved in running a post-rebellion empire , Yongle searched for scholars to join Yongle Emperor staff .
Yongle Emperor convinced the emperor that there were different Buddhism branches and religions for different people , which does not mean that one is better than others .
The Karmapa was very well received during Yongle Emperor visit and a number of miraculous occurrences were reported .
Before the Grand Canal was rebuilt , grain was transferred to Beijing in two ways ; one route was simply via the East China Sea , from the port of Liujiagang ( near Suzhou ) ; the other was a far more laborious process of transferring the grain from large to small shallow barges ( after passing the Huai River and having to cross southwestern Shandong ) , then transferred back to large river barges on the Yellow River before finally reaching Beijing .
The Hongxi Emperor ended further expeditions and the descendants of the Xuande Emperor suppressed much of the information about the Zheng Yongle Emperor voyages .
In 1411 , a smaller fleet , built in Jilin and commanded by another eunuch Yishiha , who was a Jurchen , sailed down the Sungari and Amur Rivers .
Yishiha 's expeditions returned to the lower Amur several more times during the reigns of Yongle Emperor and Xuande , the last one visiting the region in the 1430s .
Probus ' army , stationed in Sirmium ( Sremska Mitrovica , Serbia ) , decided they did not wish to fight Carus and assassinated Probus instead .
Carus , already sixty , wished to establish a dynasty and immediately elevated Carinus and Numerian to the rank of Caesar .
In celebration , Numerian , Carus , and Carinus all took the title Persici maximi .
In Emesa Numerian was apparently still alive and in good health , as Numerian issued the only extant rescript in Numerian name there .
After Emesa , Numerian staff , including the prefect Aper , reported that Numerian suffered from an inflammation of the eyes and had to travel in a closed coach .
After National Holiday (Quebec) became a statutory holiday , June 24 was officially a holiday for all Quebecers rather than only those of French-Canadian or Catholic origins .
During and immediately after the Quiet Revolution , National Holiday (Quebec) became highly politicized .
Governor General Georges Vanier , who , as viceroy , had always fostered unity and biculturalism , found himself the target of Quebec sovereigntists in Montreal , on National Holiday (Quebec) , 1964 , wherein a group of sovereigntists held placards reading `` Vanier vendu '' ( `` Vanier the sell-out '' ) and `` Vanier fou de la Reine '' ( `` Vanier , jester to the Queen '' ) .
Many saw National Holiday (Quebec) as an open act of courage , and the Prime Minister 's defiance impressed the electorate and contributed to his Liberal Party winning a significant majority the next day .
In June 2009 , National Holiday (Quebec) bands Lake of Stew and Bloodshot Bill , whose members are English-speaking and bilingual Quebeckers , were added to the program of a local celebration of Quebec 's National Day in Montreal called L'Autre St-Jean ( `` The Other St-Jean '' ) .
However , after public outrage from both the anglophone and francophone communities , these two bands were returned to the program when it was clarified that the bands were allowed to sing songs in English .
Historically , this festival has attempted to be more inclusive as groups in the past have sung in Creole and for the 2008 celebrations , Samian , `` the world 's first aboriginal Algonquin-language rapper '' , sang at Montreal 's celebration .
Early Hudson 's Bay Company hunters and trappers , following the Siskiyou Trail , passed through the site in the 1820s .
In 1887 , Portland , Oregon , and San Francisco , California , were joined by rail at Ashland, Oregon .
The structures include the Enders Building ( home of the Columbia Hotel ) , which from 1910 to 1928 contained the largest mercantile establishment between Sacramento and Portland .
Ashland, Oregon is at 1949 ft above sea level in the foothills of the Siskiyou and Cascade ranges , about 15 miles ( 24 km ) north of the California border on Interstate 5 ( I-5 ) .
A large number of restaurants , galleries , and retail stores cater to thousands of visitors who attend plays each year at the OSF .
The Bathroom Readers ' Press , which produces the Uncle John 's Bathroom Reader books , is based in Ashland, Oregon and San Diego .
The Ashland, Oregon Independent Film Festival , which shows international and domestic films of almost every genre , takes place each April in the Varsity Theatre downtown .
The ACB gives public concerts there each summer between June and August .
SOU , a public four-year university , offers programs in science and liberal arts .
However , based on all results during their time in the Premier League and Football League up to 2010 -- 11 , Swindon are ranked as the all-time 47th most successful English football club domestically .
Swindon 's exploits at this time owed a lot to the skilful forward H.J. Fleming who was capped by England 11 times between 1909 and 1914 despite playing outside the Football League .
Gorman had been sacked as manager in November 1994 , and although his successor , player-manager Steve McMahon , was unable to avoid relegation he did take Swindon to the semi-finals of the League Cup .
In 2006 , caretaker manager ( and former player ) Iffy Onuora was unable to save Swindon from relegation to League Two meaning they became the first ever former Premier League team to be relegated to the lowest Football League division .
Swindon Town F.C. also this year had an all-blue third kit which was featured for the FA Cup and also the play-off away game to Charlton .
For 2012 -- 13 Swindon Town F.C. have a blue and yellow away kit , again controversial as these are the colours of Swindon 's close rivals Oxford United .
The fighting , involving more than forty supporters , occurred in a busy shopping centre before the game , `` District Judge Roger House said Swindon Town F.C. had been a ` frightening and terrifying ' experience for scores of Christmas shoppers who witnessed the scenes '' .
The game was marred with supporter trouble which resulted in 11 arrests and saw an area of seating in the Arkell 's Stand damaged , with the Western Daily Press reporting -- `` the incident ... ended with damage to 60 seats after they were used as missiles between opposing fans '' .
John Trollope holds the record for Swindon Town F.C. appearances , having played 889 first-team matches between 1960 and 1980 .
Harry Morris holds all of Swindon 's goal records , having scored 229 goals for the club between 1926 and 1933 .
Throughout the 2009 -- 10 League One season the readers of Swindon Advertiser and visitors of their website were able to vote for a Swindon Town F.C. Legends XI .
Former players Don Rogers , John Trollope and Paul Bodin were the first three confirmed inductees with the others announced during a BBC Wiltshire Radio broadcast on 30 December 2011 .
Also , those looking forward to seeing Roberts and Pitt paired up may end up disappointed , as The Mexican are kept apart for most of the movie '' .
The Last Temptation of Christ ( or The Last Temptation ) is a novel written by Nikos Kazantzakis , first published in 1953 .
The central thesis of The Last Temptation of Christ is that Jesus , while free from sin , was still subject to fear , doubt , depression , reluctance , and lust .
Kazantzakis argues in the novel 's preface that by facing and conquering all of man 's weaknesses , Jesus struggled to do God 's will , without ever giving in to the temptations of the flesh .
The Xiongnu ( Xiongnu ; , `` Hunnu '' ; ; Guangyun ( Middle Chinese ) : ) were ancient nomadic-based people that formed a state or confederation .
The identity of the ethnic core of Xiongnu has been a subject of varied hypotheses , because only a few words , mainly titles and personal names , were preserved in the Chinese sources .
Ancient China often came in contact with was described as the `` Hsien-yün '' and the `` Jung '' nomadic people .
After Modu , later leaders formed a dualistic system of political organisation with the left and right branches of Xiongnu divided on a regional basis .
The chanyu or shan-yü -- supreme ruler equivalent to the Chinese `` Son of Heaven '' -- exercised direct authority over the central territory .
Yap , apparently describing the early period , places the Chanyu 's main camp north of Shanxi with the Wise King of the Left holding the area north of Beijing and the Wise King of the Right holding the Ordos Loop area as far as Gansu .
The peace settlement eventually reached between the parties included a Han princess given in marriage to the chanyu ( called heqin ) ; periodic gifts to the Xiongnu of silk , liquor , and rice ; equal status between the states ; and the Great Wall as mutual border .
This first treaty set the pattern for relations between the Han and the Xiongnu for sixty years .
His son and successor , the energetic Jiyu , known as the Laoshang Chanyu , continued his father 's expansionist policies .
In 121 BC , Xiongnu suffered another setback when Huo Qubing led a force of light cavalry westward out of Longxi and within six days fought his way through five Xiongnu kingdoms .
In 119 BC both Huo and Wei , each leading 50,000 cavalrymen and 100,000 footsoldiers ( in order to keep up with the mobility of Xiongnu , many of the non-cavalry Han soldiers were mobile infantrymen who traveled on horseback but fought on foot ) , and advancing along different routes , forced the chanyu and his court to flee north of the Gobi Desert .
Ban Chao was created the Marquess of Dingyuan ( 定遠侯 , i.e. , `` the Marquess who stabilized faraway places '' ) for his services to the Han Empire and returned to the capital Loyang at the age of 70 years old and died there in the year 102 .
The 12th Chanyu 's son fled east and , in 58BC , revolted .
The Great Wall of China continued to serve as the line of demarcation between Han and Xiongnu .
In 36 BC , a junior officer named Chen Tang , with the help of Gan Yanshou , protector-general of the Western Regions , assembled an expeditionary force that defeated him at the Battle of Zhizhi and sent his head as a trophy to Chang ` an .
Tensions were evident between the settled Chinese and practitioners of the nomadic way of life .
He travelled to Luoyang ( the Han capital ) to seek aid from the Han court , but at this time the Han court was in disorder from the clash between Grand General He Jin and the eunuchs , and the intervention of the warlord Dong Zhuo .
This was aimed at preventing the exiled Xiongnu in Shanxi from engaging in rebellion , and also allowed Cao Cao to use Xiongnu as auxiliaries in his cavalry .
In 311 , Xiongnu captured Luoyang , and with Xiongnu the Jin emperor Sima Chi ( Emperor Huai ) .
Since the early 19th century , Western scholars have proposed various language families or subfamilies as the affines of the language of Xiongnu .
Some scholars , including Paul Pelliot and Byambyn Rinchen , insisted on a Mongolic origin .
Well-preserved bodies in Xiongnu and pre-Xiongnu tombs in the Mongolian Republic and southern Siberia show both ` Mongoloid ' and ` Caucasian ' features but are predominantly Mongoloid with some admixture of European physical stock , nonetheless Xiongnu shared many cultural traits with their Indo-European neighbors , such as horse racing , sword worship .
Some scholars consider this a division between `` elite '' graves and `` commoner '' graves .
Also three Yakuts ' aDNA from the 15th century , and of two from the late 18th century were this haplogroup .
The similarity of the mitochondrial haplotype of the Pokrovsk subject with a woman of the Egyin Gol necropolis of the 2nd/3rd century AD ( mtDNA D haplogroup ) shows that this contact would have occurred by the end of the Xiongnu period , and possibly prior to the 3rd century BC .
The combined evidence demonstrates the close relationship between Xiongnu and the Siberian populations .
This results supports the hypothesis that the succession over time of different Turkic and Mongolian tribes in the current territory of Mongolia resulted in cultural rather than genetic exchanges .
According to the Uralistic literature the swift migration and disjunction of the Samoyedic peoples might be connected to a heavy warring in the region , probably due to the dissolution of the Xiongnu Empire in the period of the Battle of Ikh Bayan .
The mutation defining this haplogroup C-M130 , is restrained in North and Eastern-Asia and in America ( Bergen et al. 1998 .
A research project of 2007 ( Yi Chuan , 2007 ) was aimed at the genetic affinities between Tuoba Xianbei and Xiongnu populations .
Comparing with the published data of Xiongnu , the results indicated that the Tuoba Xianbei presented some close affinities to Xiongnu , which implied that there was a gene flow between Tuoba Xianbei and Xiongnu during the two southward migrations .
Within the Xiongnu culture more variety is visible from site to site than from `` era '' to `` era , '' in terms of the Chinese chronology , yet all form a whole that is distinct from that of the Han and other peoples of the non-Chinese north .
Scholar Sophia-Karin Psarras claims that Xiongnu images of animal predation , specifically tiger plus prey , is spiritual , representative of death and rebirth , and same-animal combat is representative of the acquisition of or maintenance of power .
Xiongnu consists mainly of engraved signs ( petroglyphs ) and only minimally of painted images .
Excavations conducted between 1924 -- 1925 , in Noin-Ula kurgans located in Selenga River in the northern Mongolian hills north of Ulan Bator , produced objects with over twenty carved characters , which were either identical or very similar to that of to the runic letters of the Turkic Orkhon script discovered in the Orkhon Valley .
From this a some scholars hold that the Xiongnu had a script similar to Eurasian runiform and this alphabet Xiongnu served as the basis for the ancient Turkic writing .
Standard monetary bonuses are awarded for winning a round , losing a round , killing an enemy , being the first to instruct a hostage to follow , rescuing a hostage or planting ( Terrorist ) / defusing ( Counter terrorist ) the bomb ( C4 ) in the bomb site .
Counter-Strike is Counter-Strike a mod , Counter-Strike has developed Counter-Strike own community of script writers and mod creators .
There are some mods which affect gameplay heavily , such as Gun Game , where players start with a basic pistol and must score kills to receive better weapons , and Zombie Mod , where one team consists of and must `` spread the infection '' by killing the other team ( using only the knife ) .
On April 12 , 2000 , Valve announced that the Counter-Strike developers and Valve had teamed up .
On January 17 , 2008 , a Brazilian federal court order prohibiting all sales of Counter-Strike and EverQuest and imposing the immediate withdrawal of these from all stores began to be enforced .
The federal Brazilian judge Carlos Alberto Simões de Tomaz , of the Minas Gerais judiciary section , ordered the ban in October 2007 because , according to him , the games `` bring imminent stimulus to the subversion of the social order , attempting against the democratic and rightful state and against the public safety '' .
Fotheringhay is most noted for being the site of Fotheringhay ( or Fotheringay ) Castle which was razed in 1627 .
John Leland wrote this as ` Foderingeye ' or `` Fodering inclosure '' , referring to the section of the forest that is segregated for the purpose of producing hay .
The church is Perpendicular in style and although only the nave , aisles and octagonal tower remain of the original building Fotheringhay is still in the best style of Fotheringhay period .
Edward of Norwich , 2nd Duke of York , who was killed at the Battle of Agincourt in 1415 , Richard Plantagenet , 3rd Duke of York , and his wife , Cecily Neville as well as his son Edmund , Earl of Rutland , who with Richard himself , fell at the Battle of Wakefield in 1460 , are buried in the church .
An adjective phrase ( or adjectival phrase ) is a phrase the head word of which is an adjective , e.g.
This definition is commonly used in English style guides for writing , where the terms attributive and adjective are frequently treated as synonyms , because attributive phrases are typically hyphenated , whereas predicative phrases generally are not , despite both modifying a noun .
The following trees illustrate the structure of head-initial adjective phrases , i.e. adjective phrases that have Adjectival phrase head on the left side of the phrase : The important aspect of these tree structures - regardless of whether one uses constituency or dependency to show the structure of phrases - is that Adjectival phrase are identified as adjective phrases by the label on the top node of each tree .
Other less well known human characters , only seen on the roundabout The Magic Roundabout during the credits , are Basil , Paul and Rosalie .
Comăneci 's first major international success came at the age of 13 , when Nadia Comăneci nearly swept the 1975 European Championships in Skien , Norway , winning the all-around and gold medals on every event but the floor exercise , in which Nadia Comăneci placed second .
An instrumental piece from the musical score of the 1971 film Bless the Beasts and Children , `` Cotton 's Dream '' ( which was also used as the title theme music for the American soap opera The Young and the Restless ) became associated with Nadia Comăneci after cinematographer/feature reporter Robert Riger used it against slow-motion montages of Nadia on the television program ABC 's Wide World Of Sports .
Nadia Comăneci overland journey took Nadia Comăneci through Hungary , Austria , and finally , to the United States .
Nadia Comăneci initial arrival in the United States generated some negative press , focusing on Nadia Comăneci penchant for heavy makeup and flashy clothes , and the fact that Nadia Comăneci constant companion Constantin Panait ( a Romanian exile who arranged Nadia Comăneci escape from Romania and initially exercised considerable control over Nadia Comăneci as Nadia Comăneci self-appointed business manager ) was a married father of four .
Together with Conner , Nadia Comăneci returned to Romania for the first time since Nadia Comăneci defection ( and since the fall of Communism and Ceaușescu 's death ) , and the couple were married in Bucharest on April 27 , 1996 .
On August 10 , 2007 , Nadia Comăneci was a `` mob '' participant on the American version of the game show 1 vs. 100 , and was not eliminated until the last 20 members of the mob were left .
Joseph Larmor and Hendrik Lorentz discovered that Maxwell 's equations , the cornerstone of electromagnetism , were invariant only by a certain change of time and length units .
Using only the isotropy of space and the symmetry implied by the principle of special relativity , one can show that the space-time transformations between inertial frames are either Galilean or Lorentzian .
General relativity uses the mathematics of differential geometry and tensors in order to describe gravitation as an effect of the geometry of spacetime .
The Wadden islands form the border between the North sea and the Wadden sea which lies on the south side of the island file .
The name of these villages live on in MS Oerd and MS Sier , which are the names of the ferries to the island .
Although Holland , Friesland and the Holy Roman Emperor contested this quasi-independent status , Ameland remained a free lordship until the ruling family , Cammingha , died out in 1708 .
Because of the differing landscapes and types of flora , over 60 different species of birds are sitting there every year .
When the sea between Friesland and Ameland is low tide one can walk across ( see mudflat hiking ) .
In comparison a 2009 study estimated that the Milky Way and M31 are about equal in mass , while a 2006 study put the mass of the Milky Way at ~ 80 % of the mass of the Andromeda Galaxy .
Andromeda Galaxy and the Milky Way are thus expected to collide in about 4.5 billion years , although the details are uncertain since Andromeda 's tangential velocity with respect to the Milky Way is known to only within about a factor of two .
Real World Studios houses an SSL 9000K XL mixing console at Real World Studios heart with additional outboard equipment surrounding the room including vintage pre-amplifiers , microphones and tape machines .
Artists including Marillion , Manic Street Preachers , Kanye West , Jay-Z , Beyoncé Knowles , Muse , Laura Marling , Crowded House , Take That , Sade , New Order , Tom Jones , Starsailor , Stereophonics , Kylie Minogue , Patrick Wolf , Placebo , Vanessa Carlton , Natalie Duncan and Elbow have used the studio complex .
In the meantime , a band of young revolutionaries , called Patriots , was challenging William V, Prince of Orange authority more and more .
But that was William V, Prince of Orange only success as the troops and civilians of the Batavian Republic proved quite unwilling to welcome the old regime back .
After the Peace of Amiens in 1802 , in which Great Britain recognised the Batavian Republic , an additional Franco-Prussian Convention of 23 May , 1802 declared that the House of Orange would be ceded in perpetuity the abbatial domains of Fulda and Corvey in lieu of its Dutch estates and revenues ( this became the Principality of Nassau-Orange-Fulda ) .
It was also the first game where players were given multiple lives , had to repel hordes of enemies , could take cover from enemy fire , and use destructible barriers , in addition to being Space Invaders to use a continuous background soundtrack , with four simple diatonic descending bass notes repeating in a loop , which was dynamic and changed pace during stages , like a heartbeat sound that increases pace as enemies approached .
For example , Space Invaders Extreme , released on the Nintendo DS and PlayStation Portable , integrated musical elements into the standard gameplay .
The first was Space Invaders Part II in 1979 ; Space Invaders featured color graphics , an attract mode , and new gameplay elements , and added an intermission between gameplay .
The game -- and references to Space Invaders -- has appeared in numerous facets of popular culture .
Hewitt developed an early interest in the radio and as a teenager accompanied Foster Hewitt father , W. A. Hewitt , on a trip to Detroit , Michigan to see a demonstration of radio technology sponsored by General Electric .
Foster Hewitt took a job with Independent Telephone Company , which manufactured radios , and left that job and university when Foster Hewitt father -- the sports editor of the Toronto Daily Star -- told Foster Hewitt that the Star was going to start its own radio station .
Hewitt 's first broadcast likely was February 16 , of a game between the Toronto Argonaut Rowing Club and the Kitchener Greenshirts .
Hewitt was part of the opening night ceremonies for Maple Leaf Gardens in November 1931 , and the broadcast gondola where Hewitt would broadcast from was brought into the plans with Foster Hewitt input , and the blessings of then Leafs owner Conn Smythe .
Foster Hewitt is the son of W. A. Hewitt , and the father of Bill Hewitt .
A nuclear war between the Soviet Union and the West has reduced much of the world to a barren wasteland .
`` Second Variety '' occurs in the aftermath of an extensive nuclear war between the Soviet Union ( sometimes referred to as Russia ) and the United Nations .
The three Soviets met by Major Hendricks -- Klaus , Rudi and a young woman named Tasso -- reveal that the entire Soviet army and command structure collapsed under the onslaught of the new robots .
The next morning , Hendricks and the two remaining Soviets return to the U.N. lines .
Hendricks , now suffering from a wounded arm and internal injuries , hopes to escape to the Moon Base .
Reviewing Second Variety , critic Zack Handlen wrote , '' ` Second Variety ' is grim , violent , and suspenseful .
Art historian John Rewald called Pissarro the `` dean of the Impressionist painters '' , not only because Camille Pissarro was the oldest of the group , but also `` by virtue of Camille Pissarro wisdom and Camille Pissarro balanced , kind , and warmhearted personality '' .
Camille Pissarro `` acted as a father figure not only to the Impressionists '' but to all four of the major Post-Impressionists , including Georges Seurat , Paul Cézanne , Vincent van Gogh and Paul Gauguin .
The marriage , however , caused a stir within St. Thomas ' small Jewish community , either because Rachel was outside the faith or because she was previously married to Frederick 's uncle , and in subsequent years Camille Pissarro four children were forced to attend the all-black primary school .
Upon Camille Pissarro death , Camille Pissarro will specified that Camille Pissarro estate be split equally between the synagogue and St. Thomas ' Protestant church .
When Camille Pissarro turned twenty-one , Danish artist Fritz Melbye , then living on St. Thomas , inspired Pissarro to take on painting as a full-time profession , becoming Camille Pissarro teacher and friend .
This prompted Camille Pissarro to search for alternative instruction , which Camille Pissarro requested and received from Corot .
Camille Pissarro and Corot both shared a love of rural scenes painted from nature .
This difference in style created disagreements between Camille Pissarro and Corot .
Cézanne 's work had been mocked at the time by the others in the school , and , writes Rewald , in Camille Pissarro later years Cézanne `` never forgot the sympathy and understanding with which Pissarro encouraged Camille Pissarro '' .
In subsequent Salon exhibits of 1865 and 1866 , Pissarro acknowledged Camille Pissarro influences from Melbye and Corot , whom Camille Pissarro listed as Camille Pissarro masters in the catalog '' .
Camille Pissarro is one of the three or four true painters of this day ... Camille Pissarro have rarely encountered a technique that is so sure '' '' .
After the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War of 1870 -- 71 , having only Danish nationality and being unable to join the army , Camille Pissarro moved Camille Pissarro family to Norwood , then a village on the edge of London .
They both viewed the work of British landscape artists John Constable and J. M. W. Turner , which confirmed to their belief that their style of open air painting gave the truest depiction of light and atmosphere , an effect that they felt could not be achieved in the studio alone .
Camille Pissarro came back again in 1892 , painting in Kew Gardens and Kew Green , and also in 1897 , when Camille Pissarro produced several oils described as being of Bedford Park , Chiswick , but in fact all being of the nearby Stamford Brook area except for one of Bath Road , which runs from Stamford Brook along the south edge of Bedford Park .
In the Impressionist exhibit of 1876 however , art critic Albert Wolf complained in Camille Pissarro review , `` Try to make M. Pissarro understand that trees are not violet , that sky is not the color of fresh butter ... '' Journalist and art critic Octave Mirbeau on the other hand , writes , `` Camille Pissarro has been a revolutionary through the revitalized working methods with which Camille Pissarro has endowed painting '' .
Camille Pissarro then spent the years from 1885 to 1888 practicing this more time-consuming and laborious technique , referred to as pointillism .
Although Van Gogh never boarded with Camille Pissarro , Pissarro did explain to Camille Pissarro the various ways of finding and expressing light and color , ideas which Camille Pissarro later used in Camille Pissarro paintings , notes Lucien .
Camille Pissarro `` headstrong courage and a tenacity to undertake and sustain the career of an artist '' , writes Joachim Pissarro , was due to Camille Pissarro `` lack of fear of the immediate repercussions '' of Camille Pissarro stylistic decisions .
The American impressionist Mary Cassatt , who at one point lived in Paris to study art , and joined Camille Pissarro Impressionist group , noted that Camille Pissarro was `` such a teacher that Camille Pissarro could have taught the stones to draw correctly '' .
The piece , Le Marché aux Poissons ( `` The Fish Market '' in English ) , is a color monotype , a one-of-a-kind print made by painting on glass and then transferring the wet paint to a piece of paper .
Manual and Male High School have the oldest football rivalry in the state , dating back to 1893 .
The change initially met with a mixed reaction , especially as most freshman and sophomores were to be transferred to other schools .
The magnet programs succeeded in attracting applicants and by the mid-1990s only about a third of students who applied were accepted .
Dr. Jeffrey Wigand , the subject of the film , taught science and Japanese at Manual after he was fired by tobacco company Brown & Williamson in 1993 .
The 9 acre tract DuPont Manual High School was built on had previously been the site of the old Masonic Widows and Orphans Home .
This was a part of a larger city-funded effort which created Noe Middle School north of Manual and increased the size of the University of Louisville campus , which was originally touted as a plan to create a continuous chain of schools over many blocks .
Since 1993 , YPAS has used an adjacent facility , built in 1899 and formerly home to Cochran Elementary , as an annex .
Admission to the High School University , Math/Science/Technology and Communications/Media Arts magnets are decided by a committee of Manual teachers based on academic performance as measured by prior school grades and the Commonwealth Accountability Testing System , although extracurricular involvement is also considered .
Admission the other two magnets , Visual Arts and the Youth Performing Arts School , are decided based primarily on auditions .
Matt Morris , a Manual graduate who was on the 1993 and 1994 teams , was the 1994 Teen Champion on Jeopardy! .
Between 1995 and 2005 , 90 % of YPAS students received college scholarships totaling an average of over one million dollars per year .
The rivalry was fueled in DuPont Manual High School early years by class differences between college-bound Male students and `` blue collar '' Manual students .
Varsity Boys ' Soccer was second at states in 2005 and third in 2004 .
DuPont Manual High School Girls Lacrosse has won many state titles and tournament trophies since the year 2000 when the sport was developed .
Begun some time after 1239 and consecrated on the 26th of April 1248 , Sainte-Chapelle is considered among the highest achievements of the Rayonnant period of Gothic architecture .
Although damaged during the French revolution , and restored in the 19th century , Sainte-Chapelle retains one of the most extensive in-situ collections of 13th-century stained glass anywhere in the world .
Sainte-Chapelle or ` Holy Chapel ' , in the courtyard of the royal palace on the Île de la Cité ( now part of a later administrative complex known as La Conciergerie ) , was built to house Louis IX 's collection of relics of Christ , which included the Crown of Thorns , the Image of Edessa and some thirty other items .
The relics were stored in a large and elaborate silver chest , the Grand-Chasse , on which Louis spent a further 100,000 livres .
Sainte-Chapelle , by contrast , cost 40,000 livres to build and glaze .
The chapel exterior shows many of the typical characteristics of Rayonnant architecture - deep buttresses surmounted by pinacles , crocketted gables around the roof-line and vast windows subdivided by bar tracery .
Modern scholarship rejects this attribution in favour of Jean de Chelles or Thomas de Cormont , while Robert Branner saw in the design the hand of an unidentified master mason from Amiens .
The Sainte-Chapelle 's most obvious architectural percursors include the apisidial chapels of Amiens Cathedral , which Sainte-Chapelle resembles in Sainte-Chapelle general form , and the Bishop 's Chapel ( c. 1180 's ) of Noyon Cathedral , from which Sainte-Chapelle borrowed the two-story design .
As has often been argued however the major influence on Sainte-Chapelle overall design seems to have come from contemporary metalwork , particularly the precious shrines and reliquaries made by Mosan goldsmiths .
The quatrefoils of the dado arcade were painted with scenes of saints and martyrs and inset with painted and gilded glass , emulating Limoges enamels , while rich textiles hangings added to the richness of the interior .
Fifteen huge mid-13th-century windows fill the nave and apse , while a large rose window with Flamboyant tracery ( added to Sainte-Chapelle ) dominates the western wall .
The Parisian scholastic Jean de Jandun praised the building as one of Paris 's most beautiful structures in his `` Tractatus de laudibus Parisius '' ( 1323 ) , citing `` that most beautiful of chapels , the chapel of the king , most decently situated within the walls of the king 's house , enjoys a complete and indissoluble structure of the most solid stone .
O how salutary prayers to the all-powerful God pour out in these oratories , when the internal and spiritual purities of those praying correspond proportionally with the external and physical elegance of the oratory !
The chapel suffered Sainte-Chapelle most grievous destruction in the late eighteenth century during the French Revolution , when the steeple and baldachin were removed , the relics dispersed ( although some survive as the `` relics of Sainte-Chapelle '' at Notre Dame de Paris ) , and various reliquaries , including the grande châsse , were melted down .
William I , Prince of Orange ( 24 April 1533 -- 10 July 1584 ) , also widely known as William the Silent , or simply William of Orange , was the main leader of the Dutch revolt against the Spanish that set off the Eighty Years ' War and resulted in the formal independence of the United Provinces in 1648 .
The most influential and politically capable of the rebels , William the Silent led the Dutch to several successes in the fight against the Spanish .
They were mainly seeking more political power for themselves against the de facto government of Count Berlaymont , Granvelle and Viglius of Aytta , but also for the Dutch nobility and , ostensibly , for the Estates , and complained that too many Spaniards were involved in governing the Netherlands .
Up to 1564 , any criticism of governmental measures voiced by William and the other members of the opposition had ostensibly been directed at Granvelle ; however , after the latter 's departure early that year , William , who may have found increasing confidence in William the Silent alliance with the Protestant princes of Germany following William the Silent second marriage , began to openly criticize the King 's anti-Protestant politics .
As one of the most prominent and popular politicians of the Netherlands , William of Orange emerged as the leader of an armed resistance .
William made several more plans to invade in the next few years , but little came of them , since William the Silent lacked support and money .
After a successful Spanish attack on William the Silent army , William had to flee and William the Silent retreated to Enkhuizen , in Holland .
While the new governor , Don John of Austria , was under way , William of Orange managed to have most of the provinces and cities sign the Pacification of Ghent , in which they declared themselves ready to fight for the expulsion of Spanish troops together .
In May 1584 , William the Silent presented William the Silent to William as a French nobleman , and gave William the Silent the seal of the Count of Mansfelt .
So , Frederick Henry , Maurice 's half-brother ( and William 's youngest son from William the Silent fourth marriage , to Louise de Coligny ) inherited the title of Prince of Orange .
Although William the Silent was married to Mary II , Queen of Scotland and England for 17 years , William the Silent died childless in 1702 .
But William the Silent hoped by the grace of God and the good understanding that William the Silent had with William the Silent new son , the King of Spain , that William the Silent would soon get the better of them .
But the Prince , subtle and adroit as William the Silent was , answered the good King in such a way as to leave William the Silent still under the impression that William the Silent , the Prince , knew all about the scheme proposed by Alba ; and on this understanding the King revealed all the details of the plan which had been arranged between the King of Spain and himself for the rooting out and rigorous punishment of the heretics , from the lowest to the highest rank , and in this service the Spanish troops were to be mainly employed .
The verbs `` zwijgen '' in Dutch , `` schweigen '' in German , `` tiga '' in Swedish , `` se taire '' in French , `` callar/callarse '' in Spanish and `` tacere '' in Italian have no real equivalent in English ; they mean the opposite of `` to talk '' .
In the Netherlands , William is known as the Vader des Vaderlands , `` Father of the Fatherland '' , and the Dutch national anthem , the Wilhelmus , was written in William the Silent honour .
Between William the Silent first and second marriages , William had an extramarital affair with Eva Elincx .
The identity exponent is both simple and common : Exponent (linguistics) has no phonological manifestation at all .
The Herbert Hoover National Historic Site National Historic Site buildings and grounds in West Branch , Iowa , are preserved by the National Park Service to commemorate the life of the 31st President of the United States .
A variety of blood tests are available for analyzing cholesterol transport behavior , HDL , LDL , triglycerides , lipoprotein little a , homocysteine , C-reactive protein , blood sugar control : fasting , after eating or averages using glycosylated albumen or hemoglobin , myoglobin , creatine kinase , troponin , brain-type natriuretic peptide , etc. to assess the evolution of coronary artery disease and evidence of existing damage .
A Holter monitor records a continuous EKG rhythm pattern ( rarely a full EKG ) for 24 hours or more .
An Event monitor records short term EKG rhythm patterns , generally storing the last 2 to 5 minutes , adding in new and discarding old data , for 1 to 2 weeks or more .
When the wearer presses a button on the monitor , Cardiology diagnostic tests and procedures quits discarding old and continues recording for a short additional period .
This linear relation is accurate up to about age 30 , after which Cardiology diagnostic tests and procedures mildly underestimates typical maximum attainable heart rates achievable by healthy individuals .
Other formulas exist , such as that by Miller ( 217 - ( 0.85 × Age ) ) and others None Achieving a high enough heart rate at the end of exercise is critical to improving the sensitivity of the test to detect high grade heart artery stenosis .
The North Unit ( 67 mounds ) and South Unit ( 29 mounds ) are located where the counties meet along the Mississippi River .
In northeastern Iowa the Effigy Mounds National Monument area was a point of transition between the eastern hardwood forests and the central prairies .
The visitor center , located at the park entrance , contains museum exhibits highlighting archaeological and natural specimens , an auditorium and book sales outlet .
John William Friso, Prince of Orange was the son of Henry Casimir II , Prince of Nassau-Dietz , and Princess Henriëtte Amalia of Anhalt-Dessau who were both first cousins of William III .
Waterloo , the county seat , is located approximately 65 mi east of I-35 at the intersection of U.S. Highways 20 , 63 and 218 .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 128,012 people , 49,683 households , and 31,946 families residing in Black Hawk County, Iowa .
The labels on the left refer to distinctive features , and categories of sounds can be grouped together according to whether Sonority hierarchy share a feature .
Similarly , Romance languages often show geminate / mm / to be weaker than / nn / , and Romance geminate / rr / is often stronger than other geminates , including / pp tt kk / .
At the time , 313 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Cursor and Brutus ( or , less frequently , year 441 Ab urbe condita ) .
At the time , 311 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Brutus and Barbula ( or , less frequently , year 443 Ab urbe condita ) .
At the time , 308 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Mus and Rullianus ( or , less frequently , year 446 Ab urbe condita ) .
At the time , 309 BC was known as the Year of the Dictatorship of Cursor ( or , less frequently , year 445 Ab urbe condita ) .
At the time , 306 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Tremulus and Arvina ( or , less frequently , year 448 Ab urbe condita ) .
At the time , 305 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Megellus and Augurinus ( or , less frequently , year 449 Ab urbe condita ) .
At the time , 304 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Sophus and Severrio ( or , less frequently , year 450 Ab urbe condita ) .
At the time , 302 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Denter and Paullus ( or , less frequently , year 452 Ab urbe condita ) .
At the time , 301 BC was known as the Year of the Dictatorship of Corvus ( or , less frequently , year 453 Ab urbe condita ) .
The son of Louis the Quarreler and Clementia of Hungary , sister of the King Charles I of Hungary , John I of France is the only person to be King of France since birth , and thus , the youngest King of France .
John I of France went to the Hungarian court where King Louis I of Hungary , nephew of Clemence of Hungary , recognized John I of France as the son of Louis and Clemence .
Prior to this , access to the town was limited to primitive roads and river boats .
The Southern Pacific Railroad , which had acquired the P&WVR line at the end of the 19th century , widened Lake Oswego, Oregon from narrow to standard gauge and in 1914 , electrified Lake Oswego, Oregon , providing rapid , clean , and quiet service between Oswego and Portland .
In the 1940s and 1950s , continued development helped spread Oswego 's residential areas .
In 1955 , a newly formed private company , Intercity Buses , Inc. , began operating bus service connecting Oswego with downtown Portland and Oregon City .
Lake Oswego, Oregon extends up Mount Sylvania and through Lake Grove towards Tualatin .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 36,619 people , 15,893 households , and 10,079 families residing in Lake Oswego, Oregon .
There were 15,893 households of which 28.9 % had children under the age of 18 living with them , 53.1 % were married couples living together , 7.4 % had a female householder with no husband present , 2.9 % had a male householder with no wife present , and 36.6 % were non-families .
As of the census of 2000 , there are 35,278 people in Lake Oswego, Oregon Lake Oswego, Oregon , organized into 14,769 households , and 9,665 families .
Cyril M. Kornbluth ( July 2 , 1923 -- March 21 , 1958 ) was an American science fiction author and a notable member of the Futurians .
Cyril M. Kornbluth first solo story , `` The Rocket of 1955 , '' was published in Richard Wilson 's fanzine Escape ( Vol 1 No 2 , August 1939 ) ; Cyril M. Kornbluth first collaboration , `` Stepsons of Mars , '' written with Richard Wilson and published under the name `` Ivar Towers , '' appeared in the April 1940 Astonishing .
`` The Marching Morons '' is a look at a far future in which the world 's population consists of five billion idiots and a few million geniuses -- the precarious minority of the `` elite '' working desperately to keep things running behind the scenes .
This fate is said to be Kornbluth 's response to the unauthorized publication of `` Mask of Demeter '' ( as by `` Corwin '' and `` Martin Pearson '' ( Donald A. Wollheim ) ) in Wollheim 's anthology Prize Science Fiction in 1953 .
Many of Kornbluth 's novels were written as collaborations : either with Judith Merril ( using the pseudonym Cyril Judd ) , or with Frederik Pohl .
Anthony Boucher praised the collection , saying `` Kornbluth 's sharp observation is everywhere present , and in most of the stories Cyril M. Kornbluth bitter insight '' .
At the time , 357 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Rutilus and Imperiosus ( or , less frequently , year 397 Ab urbe condita ) .
In 1306 , Philip IV of France expelled the Jews from France and annihilated in 1307 the order of the Knights Templar which were both seen by the king as a `` state within the state '' .
Because to the public Philip IV of France kept aloof and left specific policies , especially unpopular ones , to Philip IV of France ministers , Philip IV of France was called a `` useless owl '' by Philip IV of France contemporaries , among them Bishop Saisset .
The primary administrative benefit of this was the inheritance of Joan in Champagne and Brie , which were adjacent to the royal demesne in Ile-de-France and became thus effectively united to the king 's own lands , forming an expansive area .
In 1293 following a naval incident between the Normans and the English , Philip summoned Edward to the French court .
Philip emerged victorious , after having sent Philip IV of France agent William Nogaret to arrest Boniface at Anagni , when the French archbishop Bertrand de Goth was elected pope as Clement V and the official seat of the papacy moved to Avignon , an enclave surrounded by French territories .
Philip suffered a major embarrassment when an army of 2,500 noble men-at-arms ( Knights and Squires ) and 4,000 infantry Philip IV of France sent to suppress an uprising in Flanders was defeated in the Battle of the Golden Spurs near Kortrijk on 11 July 1302 .
In March 1314 , Philip had the last Grand Master of the Temple , Jacques de Molay and Geoffroi de Charney , Preceptor of Normandy , burned at the stake .
The account goes as follows : `` The cardinals dallied with their duty until March 1314 , ( exact day is disputed by scholars ) when , on a scaffold in front of Notre Dame , Jacques de Molay , Templar Grand Master , Geoffroi de Charney , Master of Normandy , Hugues de Peraud , Visitor of France , and Godefroi de Gonneville , Master of Aquitaine , were brought forth from the jail in which for nearly seven years they had lain , to receive the sentence agreed upon by the cardinals , in conjunction with the Archbishop of Sens and some other prelates whom they had called in .
The fact that , in little more than a month , Pope Clement V died in torment of a loathsome disease thought to be lupus , and that in eight months Philip IV of France , at the early age of forty-six , perished by an accident while hunting , necessarily gave rise to the legend that de Molay had cited them before the tribunal of God .
Arghun was seeking to join forces between the Mongols and the Europeans , against their common enemy the Muslim Mamluks .
In April 1305 , the new Mongol ruler Oljeitu sent letters to Philip , the Pope , and Edward I of England .
Philip IV of France again offered a military collaboration between the Christian nations of Europe and the Mongols against the Mamluks .
Philip IV of France was , however , warned against leaving by Enguerrand de Marigny and died soon after in a hunting accident .
At the time , 457 BC was known as the Year of the Consulship of Pulvillus and Augurinus or Cincinnatus and Vibulanus ( or , less frequently , year 297 Ab urbe condita ) .
To go South using a compass for navigation , set a bearing or azimuth of 180 ° .
Spaceflight ( also written Spaceflight ) is ballistic flight into or through outer space .
Once in space , the motion of a spacecraft -- both when unpropelled and when under propulsion -- is covered by the area of study called astrodynamics .
Achieving a closed orbit is not essential to lunar and interplanetary voyages .
Plans for future crewed interplanetary spaceflight missions often include final vehicle assembly in Earth orbit , such as NASA 's Project Orion and Russia 's Kliper/Parom tandem .
Astrodynamics is the study of spacecraft trajectories , particularly as Spaceflight relate to gravitational and propulsion effects .
The Mercury , Gemini , and Apollo capsules all splashed down in the sea .
Sir George Henry Martin CBE ( born 3 January 1926 ) is an English record producer , arranger , composer , conductor , audio engineer and musician .
In recognition of George Martin services to the music industry and popular culture , George Martin was awarded as Knight Bachelor in 1996 .
At eight years of age , Martin persuaded George Martin parents that George Martin should take piano lessons , but those ended after only eight lessons because of a disagreement between George Martin mother and the teacher .
When war broke out and St. Ignatius College students were evacuated to Welwyn Garden City , George Martin family left London and George Martin was enrolled at Bromley Grammar School .
Until that time , although George Martin had had considerable success with the comedy records and a number 1 hit with the Temperance Seven , Martin had had only minor success with pop music , such as `` Who Could Be Bluer '' by Jerry Lordan , and singles with Shane Fenton and Matt Monro .
The contract was not what it seemed , however , as Martin would not sign it George Martin until George Martin had heard an audition , and later said that EMI had `` nothing to lose , '' as it offered one penny for each record sold , which was split amongst the four members .
Ron Richards and George Martin engineer Norman Smith recorded four songs , which Martin ( who was not present during the recording ) listened to at the end of the session .
That was the turning point , according to Smith , as John Lennon and Paul McCartney joined in with jokes and comic wordplay that made Martin think that George Martin should sign them to a contract for their wit alone .
The Beatles ' first recording session with George Martin was on 4 September , when they recorded `` How Do You Do It '' , which George Martin thought was a sure-fire hit even though Lennon and McCartney did not want to release it , not being one of their own compositions .
Martin 's musical expertise helped fill the gaps between the Beatles ' raw talent and the sound they wanted to achieve .
For `` Strawberry Fields Forever '' , George Martin and recording engineer Geoff Emerick turned two very different takes into a single master through careful use of vari-speed and editing .
George Martin was in demand as an independent arranger and producer by the time of The White Album , so the Beatles were left to produce various tracks by themselves .
George Martin stepped down when it came to producing the two new singles reuniting McCartney , Harrison and Starr , who wanted to overdub two old Lennon demos .
In 2006 , Martin and George Martin son , Giles Martin , remixed 80 minutes of Beatles music for the Las Vegas stage performance Love , a joint venture between Cirque du Soleil and the Beatles ' Apple Corps Ltd.
In 1979 , George Martin published a memoir , All You Need is Ears ( co-written with Jeremy Hornsby ) , that described George Martin work with the Beatles and other artists ( including Peter Sellers , Sophia Loren , Shirley Bassey , Flanders and Swann , Matt Monro , and Dudley Moore ) , and gave an informal introduction to the art and science of sound recording .
In 2001 , Martin released Produced by George Martin : 50 Years In Recording , a six-CD retrospective of George Martin entire studio career , and in 2002 , Martin launched Playback , George Martin limited-edition illustrated autobiography , published by Genesis Publications .
Video emulation ( text and graphics ) was handled through software using native Macintosh QuickDraw routines , which often resulted in operations being slower than a real Apple IIe except on higher-end machines .
An included `` Y-cable '' enables the attachment of up to two external 140 KB floppy disk 5.25 '' Drives , an 800 KB `` intelligent '' 3.5 '' UniDisk drive , and a joystick or paddle control for use with the hard-coded Apple IIe emulator .
Adorno described authoritarians as `` rigid thinkers who obeyed authority , saw the world as black and white , and enforced strict adherence to social rules and hierarchies '' .
Participants predicted a much greater similarity between out-group members ( the rival school ) than between members of Prejudice in-group The justification-suppression model of prejudice was created by Christian Crandall and Amy Eshleman .
The realistic conflict theory states that competition between limited resources leads to increased negative prejudices and discrimination .
Symbolic threats arise from a perceived difference in cultural values between groups or a perceived imbalance of power -- for example , an ingroup perceiving an outgroup 's religion as incompatible with theirs .
Intergroup anxiety is a feeling of uneasiness experienced in the presence of an outgroup or outgroup member , which constitutes a threat because interactions with other groups cause negative feelings ( e.g. , a threat to comfortable interactions ) .
Legitimizing myths , such as discriminatory hiring practices or biased merit norms , work to maintain these prejudiced hierarchies .
In the field of Social Psychology , prejudice studies like the `` Who Likes Competent Women '' study led the way for gender-based research on prejudice This resulted in two broad themes or focuses in the field : the first being a focus on attitudes toward gender equality , and the second focusing on people 's beliefs about men and women Today studies based on sexism continue in the field of psychology as researchers try to understand how people 's thoughts , feelings , and behaviors influence and are influenced by others .
Nationalism , during times of conflict between one nation and another , is controversial since Prejudice may function as a buffer for criticism when Prejudice comes to the nation 's own problems since Prejudice makes the nation 's own hierarchies and internal conflicts appear to be natural .
Racism and other forms of prejudice can affect a person 's behavior , thoughts and feelings , and social psychologists strive to study exactly that .
Academics Thomas Pettigrew and Linda Tropp conducted a meta-analysis of 515 studies involving a quarter of a million participants in 38 nations to examine how intergroup contact reduces prejudice .
The matter of Acantha 's identity is further confused by the fact that the acanthus plant is not a tree , but a shrub or bush , and therefore is unlikely to have had a nymph associated with Acantha .
In 2005 , the International Committee for Weights and Measures ( CIPM ) agreed to study the proposed change .
The most notable feces-eating insect is the dung-beetle and the most common is the fly .
In the Early Modern Period the food of England was historically characterised by English cuisine simplicity of approach and a reliance on the high quality of natural produce .
Other meals , such as fish and chips , which were once urban street food eaten from newspaper with salt and malt vinegar , and pies and sausages with mashed potatoes , onions , and gravy , are now matched in popularity by curries from India and Bangladesh , and stir-fries based on Chinese and Thai cuisine .
( The unadventurous approach and the tendency to eat fish battered were mocked by Keith Floyd with the phrase `` unidentified frying objects '' ) .
Popular non-English fish dishes include Scottish cullen skink soup , Spanish paella , French fish soup , Thai fishcakes , moules frites and various Asian prawn dishes .
A kipper is a whole herring that has been split from tail to head , gutted , salted or pickled , and cold smoked .
A dainty form of sandwich , cut into small squares , without crusts , and often filled with cucumber , are served at genteel gatherings , such as Royal Garden parties .
A light breakfast might consist of breakfast cereal , muesli , boiled or scrambled eggs , toast and conserves or sometimes poached kippers .
In the 18th and 19th centuries , the upper classes ate elaborate breakfasts including such dishes as kedgeree and devilled kidneys .
This is no longer the case in the workplace , and is rarer in the home than English cuisine once was .
The practice of serving a roast dinner on a Sunday is related to the elaborate preparation required , and to the housewife 's practice of performing the weekly wash on a Monday , when the cold remains of the roast made an easily assembled meal .
A number are variations on suet pudding , and `` pudding '' is an alternative name for the dessert course in England .
An accompaniment , custard , sometimes known as crème anglaise ( `` English sauce '' ) is a substitute to `` eggs and milk '' made from cornflour and vanilla .
In 2003 , there were as many as 10,000 restaurants serving Indian cuisine in England and Wales alone .
all restaurants offer `` dry '' tandoori and tikka dishes of marinated meat or fish cooked in a special oven , and biriani dishes , where the meat and rice are mixed together .
In Britain , tea is usually black tea served with milk ( never cream ; the cream of a `` cream tea '' is clotted cream served on top of scones then normally strawberry jam on top , a tradition originating from Devon and Cornwall ) .
Much of the time in the United Kingdom , tea drinking is not the delicate , refined cultural expression that the rest of the world imagines -- a cup ( or commonly a mug ) of tea is something drunk often , with some people drinking six or more cups of tea a day .
Barley water , usually flavoured with lemon or other fruit , is a traditional British soft drink .
This led to the English becoming a main consumer of sweet fortified wines like sherry from Spain , and Port wine and Madeira wine from Portugal .
For traditional foods with Protected Geographical Status under European law , see List of United Kingdom food and drink products with protected status .
C. L. Moore ( January 24 , 1911 -- April 4 , 1987 ) was an American science fiction and fantasy writer , most often as C. L. Moore .
Deianira is a figure in Greek mythology , best known for being Heracles ' third wife and , in the late Classical story , unwittingly killing him with the Shirt of Nessus .
In Greek mythology , Achelous was the patron deity of the `` silver-swirling '' Achelous River , which is the largest river of Greece , and thus the chief of all river deities , every river having Achelous own river spirit .
Some Greek sources say that he was the son of Gaia and Oceanus ; however , ancient Greeks generally believed with Hesiod that Tethys and Oceanus were the parents of all three thousand river gods .
Achelous was sometimes the father of the Sirens by Terpsichore , or in a later version , Achelous are from the blood he shed where Heracles broke off his horn .
Achelous resembled a bull 's voice in the noise of the water ; Achelous windings and Achelous reaches gave rise to the story about his forming himself into a serpent and about his horns ; the formation of islands at the mouth of the river requires no explanation .
Compactron 's integrated valve design helped lower power consumption and heat generation ( Compactron were to tubes what integrated circuits were to transistors ) .
No modern tube based Hi-Fi systems are known to use this tube type , as simpler and more readily available tubes have again filled this niche .
A distinguishing feature of most Compactrons is the placement of the evacuation tip on the bottom end , rather than the top end as was customary with `` miniature '' tubes , and a characteristic 3/4 '' diameter circle pin pattern .
Integrated circuits ( of the analogue and digital type ) gradually took over all of the functions that the Compactron was designed for .
Acheron is a river of Hades , into which Cocytus and Phlegethon both flowed .
The screenplay and the stage play on which Dial M for Murder was based were both written by English playwright Frederick Knott , whose work often focused on women who innocently become the potential victims of sinister plots .
The play premiered in 1952 on BBC television , before being performed on the stage in the same year in London 's West End in June , and then New York 's Broadway in October .
Warner Bros. allowed Hitchcock to scrap the movie , and begin production on Dial M for Murder .
The American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) produced a two-hour color version in 1968 featuring Laurence Harvey as Tony , Diane Cilento as Margot and Hugh O'Brian as Max .
Another Bollywood film , Humraaz ( 2002 ) , starring Bobby Deol , Akshaye Khanna , and Amisha Patel , was inspired by both films as well as A Perfect Murder .
In August of the same year , Forethought was bought by Microsoft for $ 14 million USD ( $ in present-day terms ) , and became Microsoft 's Graphics Business Unit , which continued to develop the software further .
A better analogy would be the `` foils '' ( or transparencies/plastic sheets ) that are shown with an overhead projector , although Microsoft PowerPoint are in decline now .
Tufte concluded that : The language , spirit , and presentation tool of the pitch culture had penetrated throughout the NASA organization , even into the most serious technical analysis , the survival of the shuttle .
`` Death by Microsoft PowerPoint '' is a criticism of slide-based presentations referring to a state of boredom and fatigue induced by information overload during presentations such as those created by the Microsoft application Microsoft PowerPoint .
Wright ( 2009 ) suggests PowerPoint is a convenient prop for poor speakers , Microsoft PowerPoint can reduce complicated messages to simple bullet points and Microsoft PowerPoint elevates style over substance ; and that these three things contribute to Microsoft PowerPoint popularity .
`` Microsoft PowerPoint hell '' is the tedium some people report on sitting through Microsoft PowerPoint visual presentations that are too long and complex , making excessive use of the software 's features and when the presenter just reads from the slides .
Theorem ( A. Korselt 1899 ) : A positive composite integer is a Carmichael number if and only if is square-free , and for all prime divisors of , Carmichael number is true that ( where means that divides ) .
Call a nonzero ideal in Carmichael if it is not a prime ideal and for all , where is the norm of the ideal .
When K is , the ideal is principal , and if we let a be Carmichael number positive generator then the ideal is Carmichael exactly when a is a Carmichael number in the usual sense .
A theorem states that n is prime if and only if all such functions pn are algebra endomorphisms .
Some of the names above were once associated with independent goddesses ( such as Ninmah and Ninmenna ) , who later became identified and merged with Ninhursag , and myths exist in which the name Ninhursag is not mentioned .
A roc or rukh ( from the Arabic and Persian رخ rokh , asserted by Louis Charles Casartelli to be an abbreviated form of Persian simurgh ) is an enormous legendary bird of prey , often said to be white .
The roc had Roc (mythology) origins , according to Rudolph Wittkower , in the fight between the Indian solar bird Garuda and the chthonic serpent Nāga .
Roc (mythology) appears in Arabic geographies and natural history , popularized in Arabian fairy tales and sailors ' folklore .
Rabbi Benjamin of Tudela reported a story reminiscent of the roc in which shipwrecked sailors had themselves carried off desert islands by wrapping ox-hides round them and letting griffins carry them off as if Roc (mythology) were cattle .
In 1863 , Bianconi suggested Roc (mythology) was a raptor ( Hawkins and Goodman , 2003 : 1031 ) .
Another possible origin of the myth originated from accounts of eggs of another extinct Malagasy bird , the enormous Aepyornis elephant bird , hunted to extinction by the 16th century , that was three meters tall and flightless .
Another rationalizing theory is that the existence of rocs was postulated from the sight of the African ostrich , which , because of Roc (mythology) flightlessness and unusual appearance , was mistaken for the chick of a presumably much larger species .
Roc (mythology) is a raptor ( Hawkins and Goodman , 2003 : 1031 ) .
`` We may justifiably ask , '' observes Kerenyi , `` Why was this great mythical hunter , who in Greece became a mysterious god of the underworld , a capturer of wild animals and not a killer ?
According to the followers of Orphism , Zeus had lain with Persephone -- who , by the tradition ascribed to Orpheus , was the daughter of Zeus and Demeter -- in the form of a serpent .
Some accounts say that he was reassembled and resurrected by Demeter ; others , that Zeus fed his heart to Semele in a drink , making her pregnant with Dionysus .
In Hesiod 's Theogony and the Homeric Hymn to Demeter , Zeus granted that Hades could abduct Persephone , suggesting that their roles are sometimes interchangeable .
Acoetes Acoetes was the name of two men in Greek and Roman mythology .
In Macedon , according to Plutarch 's Life of Alexander , Maenad were called Mimallones and Klodones , epithets derived from the feminine art of spinning wool ; nevertheless , these warlike parthenoi ( `` virgins '' ) from the hills , associated with a shamanic Dionysios pseudanor , routed an invading enemy .
In Greek vase painting , the frolicking of Maenad and Dionysus is often a theme depicted on Greek kraters , used to mix water and wine .
In another myth , when his mother , Semele , is killed , the care of young Dionysus falls into the hands of her sisters , Ino , Agave , and Autonoe , who later are depicted as participating in the rites and taking a leadership role among the other maenads .
The doubting women of Thebes , the prototypical maenads , or ` mad women ' , left their homes to live in the wilds of the nearby mountain Cithaeron .
In the third century BC , when an Asia Minor city wanted to create a maenadic cult of Dionysus , the Delphic Oracle bid them to send to Thebes for both instruction and three professional maenads , stating , `` Go to the holy plain of Thebe so that you may get maenads who are from the family of Ino , daughter of Cadmus .
Cultic rites associated with worship of the Greek god of wine , Dionysus ( or Bacchus in Roman mythology ) , were allegedly characterized by maniacal dancing to the sound of loud music and crashing cymbals , in which the revellers , called Bacchantes , whirled , screamed , became drunk and incited one another to greater and greater ecstasy .
The women of Amphissa formed a protective ring around them and when Maenad awoke arranged for them to return home unmolested .
However , Edwards does not consider the actions of the figures on the pottery to be a distinguishing characteristic for differentiation between Maenad and nymphs .
Maenad , along with Bacchus and Silenus , appear in C.S. Lewis ' Prince Caspian .
In the Buffy the Vampire Slayer novel , Maenad are depicted as corrupted human beings in service of the ancient and powerful Greek vampire Kakistos , whose name means in Greek `` the worst '' , the natural superlative of kakos meaning `` bad '' .
Maenad chase Leo and Piper into Bunker 9 , and are subsequently tricked into being captured in a golden net .
In a play that follows a climatic plot construction , Dionysus the Protagonist , instigates the unfolding action by simultaneously emulating the play 's author , costume designer , choreographer and artistic director .
The story of Pentheus ' resistance to Dionysus and his subsequent punishment is presented by Euripides as follows .
According to some glottochronological speculations the Eastern Baltic languages split from the Western Baltic ones between AD 400 and AD 600 .
At a minimum , transitional dialects existed until the 14th or 15th century , and perhaps as late as the 17th century .
The conventions of written Lithuanian had been evolving during the 19th century , but Jablonskis , in the introduction to his Lietuviškos kalbos gramatika , was the first to formulate and expound the essential principles that were so indispensable to Lithuanian language later development .
He proposed that the two language groups were indeed a unity after the division of Indo-European , but also suggested that after the two had divided into separate entities ( Baltic and Slavic ) , they had posterior contact .
The digraph ch represents a single sound , the velar fricative , while dz and dž are pronounced like straightforward combinations of Lithuanian language component letters ( sounds ) : Dz dz ( dzė ) , Dž dž ( džė ) , Ch ch ( cha ) .
The latter is largely the case when i occurs after a consonant and is followed by a vowel , except in some borrowed words ( e.g. , the first consonant in lūpa , `` lip '' , is slightly different from the palatalized first consonant in liūtas , `` lion '' , but both consonants are then followed by the same vowel , the long , there is no in liūtas ) .
Acute , grave , and tilde diacritics are used to indicate pitch accents .
To indicate long vowels , the nosinė diacritic ( `` little-nose diacritic '' ; caudata , `` tailed '' , in Latin ) is added under the letters ą , į , and ų in many instances , which is a historical relic of a time when these vowels were nasalized , and at an even earlier time constituted diphthongs with a - component ( now occurring only in South Aukštaitijan dialects ) .
As said , Lithuanian has a free accent which means that Lithuanian language position and type is not phonologically predictable and has to be learned by heart .
This is the state of affairs inherited from Proto-Balto-Slavic and , to a lesser extent , from Proto-Indo-European ; Lithuanian language circumflex and acute syllables directly reflect Proto-Balto-Slavic acute and circumflex tone opposition .
However , while kõšė is perceived as having a rising pitch ( or ) , this is not supported acoustically ; measurements do not find a consistent tone associated with such syllables that distinguish them from unaccented heavy syllables .
The Lithuanian language accentual system inherited another very important aspect from Proto-Balto-Slavic period , and that is the accentual mobility .
Speakers of the major cities such as Vilnius , Kaunas and Klaipėda with mixed populations generally do not have intonational oppositions in Lithuanian language , even when they speak the standard idiom .
The changes and variation in Lithuanian language phonetics include diachronic changes of a quality of a phoneme , alternations , dialectal variation , variation between corresponding sounds of individual inflectional morphemes of the same grammatical category , which is at the same time qualitative and quantitative , diachronic and synchronic .
The Lithuanian language is a highly inflected language in which the relationships between parts of speech and Lithuanian language roles in a sentence are expressed by numerous inflections .
This includes the synthetic formation of the future tense with the help of the - s - suffix ; three principal verbal forms with the present tense stem employing the - n - and - st - infixes .
These forms , except the infinitive , are conjugative , having two singular , two plural persons and the third person form common both for plural and singular .
Another recent book on Lithuanian language grammar is the second edition of `` Review of Modern Lithuanian Grammar '' by Edmund Remys , published by Lithuanian Research and Studies Center , Chicago , 2003 .
On the one hand , the numerous lexical and grammatical similarities between Baltic and Slavic languages suggest an affinity between these two language groups .
The history of the relationship between Baltic and Slavic languages , and our understanding of the affinity between the two groups , remain in dispute .
The majority of the loanwords were found to have been derived from the Polish , Belarussian , and German languages , with some evidence that these languages all acquired the words from contacts and trade with Prussia during the era of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania .
The optative mood ( i.e. the third-person imperative ) still had Lithuanian language own endings , - ai for third-conjugation verbs and - ie for other verbs , instead of using regular third-person present endings .
Lithuanian language is a highly inflected language in which the relationships between parts of speech and their roles in a sentence are expressed by numerous inflections .
Nolan Bushnell ( born February 5 , 1943 ) is an American engineer and entrepreneur who founded both Atari , Inc. and the Chuck E. Cheese 's Pizza-Time Theaters chain .
Nolan , who is co-founder and Chairman of Brainrush , believes that Brainrush will be Nolan Bushnell biggest success .
In 1972 , Nolan Bushnell and Dabney set off on their own , and learned that the name `` Syzygy '' was in use ; Nolan Bushnell has said at different times that it was in use by a candle company owned by a Mendocino hippie commune and by a roofing company .
, and other navigation systems ; it was sold to Rupert Murdoch in the 1980s .
The latest iteration ( announced in 2005 ) is a new interactive entertainment restaurant called the uWink Media Bistro , whose concept builds off Nolan Bushnell Chuck E. Cheese venture and previous 1988 -- 1989 venture Bots Inc. , which developed similar systems of customer-side point-of-sale touch-screen terminals in addition to autonomous pizza delivery robots for Little Caesar 's Pizza .
The multiplayer network type video games that allowed table to table interaction or even with table group play never materialized .
The original Duron , using the `` Spitfire '' core , was manufactured in 2000 and 2001 at speeds ranging from 600 to 950 MHz .
And , with the arrival of the socketed Athlon/Duron chips , AMD switched to an exclusive cache design which did not mirror data between the L1 and L2 like the inclusive cache used on the Slot A K7 , a critical feature in a low-cache situation .
In 1965 , several Project GENIE members , specifically Butler Lampson and Peter Deutsch , developed the Berkeley Timesharing System for Scientific Data Systems ' SDS 940 computer .
In 1973 , the Xerox Alto , with its three-button mouse and full-page-sized monitor was born .
In 1992 , Butler Lampson won the distinguished ACM Turing Award for Butler Lampson contributions to personal computing and computer science and in 1994 Butler Lampson was inducted as a Fellow of the ACM .
In Japan , Real-time strategy beginning can be traced to Bokosuka Wars ( 1983 ) , an early strategy RPG ( or `` simulation RPG '' ) ; the game revolves around the player leading an army across a battlefield against enemy forces in real-time while recruiting/spawning soldiers along the way , for which it is considered by Ray Barnholt of 1UP .
This led to several other games that combine role-playing and real-time strategy elements , such as the 1988 Kure Software Koubou computer strategy RPGs , First Queen and Silver Ghost , which featured an early example of a point-and-click interface , to control characters using a cursor .
TechnoSoft 's Herzog ( 1988 ) is regarded as a precursor to the real-time strategy genre , being the predecessor to Herzog Zwei and somewhat similar in nature , though primitive in comparison .
Real-time strategy introduced much of the genre conventions , including unit construction and resource management , with the control and destruction of bases being an important aspect of the game , as were the economic/production aspects of those bases .
Westwood 's Dune II : The Building of a Dynasty ( 1992 ) featured all the core concepts and mechanics of modern real-time strategy games that are still used today , such as using the mouse to move units , and gathering resources , and as such served as the prototype for later real-time strategy games .
The mouse , and the direct control Real-time strategy allowed , was critical in making the RTS genre possible '' .
( 1994 ) achieved great prominence upon Real-time strategy release , owing in part to Real-time strategy use of a fantasy setting and also to Real-time strategy depiction of a wide variety of buildings ( such as farms ) which approximated a full fictitious society , not just a military force .
Because of their generally faster-paced nature ( and in some cases a smaller learning curve ) , Real-time strategy have surpassed the popularity of turn-based strategy computer games .
Although this strategy has been criticized for encouraging overwhelming force over strategy and tactics , defenders of the strategy argue that Real-time strategy 're simply taking advantage of the strategies utilized , and some argue that Real-time strategy is a realistic representation of warfare .
Total Annihilation ( 1997 ) was the first real-time strategy game to utilize true 3D units , terrain , and physics in both rendering and in gameplay .
Homeworld , Warzone 2100 and Machines ( all released in 1999 ) advanced the use of fully 3D environments in real-time strategy titles .
Apart from an Ethernet connection , the Alto 's only common output device was a bi-level ( black and white ) cathode ray tube ( CRT ) display with a tilt-and-swivel base , mounted in `` portrait '' orientation rather than the more common `` landscape '' orientation .
The Executive Office of the President of the United States ( EOP ) issued a request for proposal for a computer system to replace the aging Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) budget system , using Alto-like workstations , connected to an IBM-compatible mainframe .
These machines , based on the ` Wildflower ' architecture described in a paper by Butler Lampson , incorporated most of the Alto innovations , including the graphical user interface with icons , windows , folders , Ethernet-based local networking , and network-based laser printer services .
Although clocked at 266 or 300 MHz ( frequencies 33 or 66 MHz higher than the desktop version of the Pentium w/MMX ) , the cacheless Celerons were a good deal slower than the parts they were designed to replace .
Besides only having half the L2 cache ( 128 KB instead of 256 KB ) and the lower FSB ( 66-100 MHz instead of 100-133 MHz ) , the Coppermine Celeron was identical to the Coppermine Pentium III .
All Celeron-128 CPUs from 800 MHz and higher use the 100 MHz front side bus .
A 1.3 GHz chip , launched 4 January 2002 , and finally a 1.4 GHz chip , launched 15 May 2002 ( the same day as the 1.7 GHz Willamett-based Celeron launch ) , marked the end of the Tualatin-256 line .
, showed that the new Celeron D architecture alone offered up performance improvements on average of > 10 % over a Northwood Celeron when both CPUs were run at the same bus and clock rate .
In mid-2005 , Intel refreshed Celeron with Intel 64 and XD Bit ( eXecute Disable ) enabled .
As is traditional with Celerons , Celeron does not have Intel VT-x instruction support or SpeedStep ( although Enhanced Halt State is enabled , allowing the Celerons to lower the multiplier to 6 × and decrease core voltage while idle ) .
The Celeron E3000 series , starting with E3200 and E3300 , was released in August 2009 , featuring the Wolfdale-3M core used in Pentium Dual-Core E5000 , Pentium E6000 and Core 2 Duo E7000 series .
The Jasper Forest chip is closely related to Lynnfield and contains four cores , 8 MB of L3 and a QPI interface , but most of these are disabled in the Celeron version , leaving a single core with 2 MB of L3 cache .
These differed from their desktop counterparts in that the Mobile series were offered in both 100 MHz and 133 MHz FSB .
A 90 nm Celeron M with half of the L2 cache of the 90 nm Dothan Pentium Ms ( twice the L2 cache of the 130 nm Celeron Ms , though ) , and , like Celeron predecessor , lacking SpeedStep .
Celeron M 523 , M 520 and M 530 are Socket M based , while Celeron 530 through 570 ( without M ) are for Socket P. 4 January 2008 marked the discontinuation of Merom CPUs .
This includes the Celeron M 7xx Consumer Ultra-Low Voltage ( CULV ) series starting at 1.2 GHz and the later Celeron 900 ( 2.2 GHz ) .
As a budget processor , Celeron does not support a dual processor configuration using multiple CPU sockets , however Tomohiro Kawada , a Japanese hacker , discovered that multiprocessing could be enabled on Slot 1 Celeron processors by shorting a pin on the slot connector and other on the CPU core .
This word is composed of the two words ōlli , meaning `` rubber '' , and mēcatl , meaning `` rope '' , so the word means `` rubber line or lineage '' The Olmec heartland is the area in the Gulf lowlands that is generally considered the birthplace of the Olmec culture .
The beginnings of Olmec civilization have traditionally been placed between 1400 and 1200 BCE .
It seems that the Olmec had their roots in early farming cultures of Tabasco , which began between 5100 BCE and 4600 BCE .
Some researchers , including artist and art historian Miguel Covarrubias , even postulate that the Olmecs formulated the forerunners of many of the later Mesoamerican deities .
No Olmec or Olmec-influenced sacrificial artifacts have yet been discovered ; no Olmec or Olmec-influenced artwork unambiguously shows sacrificial victims ( as do the danzante figures of Monte Albán ) or scenes of human sacrifice ( such as can be seen in from El Tajin ) .
Some authors have associated infant sacrifice with Olmec ritual art showing limp were-jaguar babies , most famously in La Venta 's Altar 5 ( on the right ) or Las Limas figure .
Symbols found in 2002 and 2006 date from 650 BCE and 900 BCE respectively , preceding the oldest Zapotec writing , which dates from about 500 BCE .
Known as the Cascajal Block , and dated between 1100 BCE and 900 BCE , the 2006 find from a site near San Lorenzo shows a set of 62 symbols , 28 of which are unique , carved on a serpentine block .
Others are skeptical because of the stone 's singularity , the fact that Olmec had been removed from any archaeological context , and because Olmec bears no apparent resemblance to any other Mesoamerican writing system .
A dozen rubber balls dating to 1600 BCE or earlier have been found in El Manatí , an Olmec sacrificial bog east of San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan .
Campbell and Kaufman proposed that the presence of these core loanwords indicated that the Olmec -- generally regarded as the first `` highly civilized '' Mesoamerican society -- spoke a language ancestral to Mixe -- Zoquean .
The spread of this vocabulary particular to their culture accompanied the diffusion of other Olmec cultural and artistic traits that appears in the archaeological record of other Mesoamerican societies .
Based on this dating , the architectural and archaeological patterns and the particulars of the vocabulary loaned to other Mesoamerican languages from Mixe -- Zoquean , Wichmann now suggests that the Olmecs of San Lorenzo spoke proto-Mixe and the Olmecs of La Venta spoke proto-Zoque .
At least the fact that the Mixe -- Zoquean languages still are , and are historically known to have been , spoken in an area corresponding roughly to the Olmec heartland , leads most scholars to assume that Olmec spoke one or more Mixe -- Zoquean languages .
Olmec art shows that such deities as the Feathered Serpent and a rain supernatural were already in the Mesoamerican pantheon in Olmec times .
Studies of the Tuxtla Mountain settlements , some away , indicate that this area was composed of more or less egalitarian communities outside the control of lowland centers .
Despite the wide range of hunting and fishing available , midden surveys in San Lorenzo have found that the domesticated dog was the single most plentiful source of animal protein .
In counterpoint to Stirling , Covarrubias , and Alfonso Caso , however , Mayanists J. Eric Thompson and Sylvanus Morley argued for Classic-era dates for the Olmec artifacts .
The electronic signals exchanged between the various parts ( ball and players generators , sync generators , diode matrix , etc. ) are binary .
Ralph Baer is also believed to have proposed the concept of `` active cartridges '' containing additional electronic components allowing adding more game features such as sound effects , variable net position , and variable ball speed , though the idea apparently did not catch any interest .
Magnavox later released several other scaled down Pong-like consoles based under the Odyssey name ( which did not use cartridges or game cards ) , and at one point a truly programmable , cartridge based console , the Odyssey ² , in 1978 .
( This is a bit confusing , since the original space cadet keyboard and the X Window System recognize a `` Meta '' modifier distinct from `` Super '' .
Intuitively , Modifier key 'll be a Space when you want a whitespace , and a Shift when you want Modifier key to act as a shift .
Modifier key is a special key ( or combination ) on a computer keyboard that temporarily modifies the normal action of another key when pressed together .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
Thirty days ' notice is required before the order can be issued , and the scheduling expires after a year ; however , the period may be extended six months if rulemaking proceedings to permanently schedule the drug are in progress .
All individuals and firms that are registered are required to maintain complete and accurate inventories and records of all transactions involving controlled substances , as well as security for the storage of Controlled Substances Act .
The Congressional findings in 21 USC § § , , and state that a major purpose of the CSA is to `` enable the United States to meet all of Controlled Substances Act obligations '' under international treaties .
However , the Secretary has great influence over any drug scheduling proposal under the Single Convention , because requires the Secretary the power to `` evaluate the proposal and furnish a recommendation to the Secretary of State which shall be binding on the representative of the United States in discussions and negotiations relating to the proposal '' .
Similarly , if the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs adds or transfers Controlled Substances Act to a Schedule established by the Convention on Psychotropic Substances , so that current U.S. regulations on the drug do not meet the treaty 's requirements , the Secretary is required to issue a recommendation on how Controlled Substances Act should be scheduled under the CSA .
Placing a drug or other substance in a certain Schedule or removing Controlled Substances Act from a certain Schedule is primarily based on 21 USC § § , , , , , and .
The specific classification of any given drug or other substance is usually a source of controversy , as is the purpose and effectiveness of the entire regulatory scheme .
`` The term ` controlled substance ' means a drug or other substance , or immediate precursor , included in schedule I , II , III , IV , or V of part B of this subchapter .
Some have argued that this is an important exemption , since alcohol and tobacco are the two most widely used drugs in the United States .
Under the DEA 's interpretation of the CSA , a drug does not necessarily have to have the same abuse potential as heroin or cocaine to merit placement in Schedule I ( in fact , cocaine is currently a Schedule II drug due to limited medical use .
This affects many preparations which were previously available over-the-counter without restriction , such as Actifed , their generic equivalents , etc. California Health and Safety Code sections 11100 and 11106 specify the new restrictions regarding over the counter ( OTC ) sale of ephedrine or pseudoephedrine containing products ( PSE ) .
Teamed with Elmer Lach as centre and Hector ` Toe ' Blake playing left-wing , they formed the `` Punch Line '' .
In 1996 at the closing of the Montreal Forum , a tearful `` Rocket '' received the longest standing ovation in the city 's history : Over 16 minutes of applauding poured over Maurice Richard , chanting Maurice Richard nickname over and over again .
When Maurice Richard realized the crowd was not letting up and their love for Maurice Richard was real , Maurice Richard broke down in tears while waving and mouthing `` thank you '' .
Richard later stated that when Maurice Richard closed Maurice Richard eyes and heard the crowd , it brought Maurice Richard back to Maurice Richard younger days .
Maurice Richard is 18 and the second time the following year .
In his poem `` Past Ruin 'd Ilion '' , English writer and poet Walter Savage Landor ( 1775-1864 ) wrote the line `` Alcestis rises from the shades '' as having a double meaning , evoking her rise from Hades while demonstrating the ability of enduring poetry to give her vitality , drawing her into the light from the shadows of historical oblivion .
Pelias ( Ancient Greek : ) was king of Iolcus in Greek mythology , the son of Tyro and Poseidon .
One day , Poseidon , filled with lust for Tyro , disguised himself as Enipeus and from their union was born Pelias and Neleus , twin boys .
During Jason 's absence , Pelias thought the Argo had sunk , and this was what he told Aeson and Promachus , who committed suicide by drinking poison .
Claude Piron ( 26 February 1931 -- 22 January 2008 ) was a psychologist and a translator for the United Nations ( from Chinese , English , Russian and Spanish into French ) from 1956 to 1961 .
In a lecture on the current system of international communication Claude Piron argued that `` Esperanto relies entirely on innate reflexes '' and `` differs from all other languages in that you can always trust your natural tendency to generalize patterns ... The same neuropsychological law ... -- called by Jean Piaget generalizing assimilation -- applies to word formation as well as to grammar '' .
Adonis was killed by a wild boar , said to have been sent vicariously by Artemis , jealous of Adonis ' hunting skills or in retaliation for Aphrodite instigating the death of Hippolytus , a favorite of the huntress goddess ; or by Aphrodite 's paramour , Ares , who was jealous of Aphrodite 's love for Adonis ; or by Apollo , to punish Aphrodite for blinding his son , Erymanthus .
The patriarchal Hellenes sought a father for Adonis , and found him in Byblos and Cyprus , which scholars take to indicate the direction from which Adonis ' had come to the Greeks .
Pseudo-Apollodorus , ( Bibliotheke , 3.182 ) considered Adonis to be the son of Cinyras , of Paphos on Cyprus , and Metharme .
The nest is built on or near the ground , with 3 -- 5 eggs which are incubated by the female .
Thrush Nightingale greyer tones , giving a cloudy appearance to the underside , and lack of the Nightingale 's obvious red tail side patches are the clearest plumage differences from that species .
Others , such as L. svecica cyanecula ( Bluethroat ) of southern and central Europe , have a white spot in the centre of the blue bib .
Despite the distinctive appearance of the males , recent genetic studies show only limited variation between the forms , and confirm that this is a single species .
Captain America 1 -- cover-dated March 1941 and on sale December 20 , 1940 , a year before the attack on Pearl Harbor , but a full year into World War II -- showed the protagonist punching Nazi leader Adolf Hitler in the jaw ; it sold nearly one million copies .
The threats , which included menacing groups of people loitering out on the street outside of the offices , proved so serious that police protection was posted with New York Mayor Fiorello La Guardia personally contacting Simon and Kirby to give his support .
In response , Goodman had Simon and Kirby create a distinctive round shield for issue 2 , which went on to become an iconic element of Captain America .
In the post-war era , with the popularity of superheroes fading , Captain America led Timely 's first superhero team , the All-Winners Squad , in Captain America two published adventures , in All Winners Comics 19 and 21 ( Fall -- Winter 1946 ; there was no issue 20 ) .
After Bucky was shot and wounded in a 1948 Captain America story , he was succeeded by Captain America girlfriend , Betsy Ross , who became the superheroine Golden Girl .
Kirby 's regular inkers on the series were Frank Giacoia ( as `` Frank Ray '' ) and Joe Sinnott , though Don Heck and Golden Age Captain America artist Syd Shores inked one story each .
Joseph Rogers died when Steve was only a child and his mother , Sarah , died of pneumonia while Steve was a teen .
Unable to create new Super-Soldiers , and willing to hide the Project Rebirth fiasco , the American government casts the now-powerful Rogers as a patriotic superhero , able to counter the menace of the Red Skull as a counter-intelligence agent .
In late April 1945 , during the closing days of World War II , Captain America and Bucky try to stop the villainous Baron Zemo from destroying an experimental drone plane .
The last of these other official Captains , William Burnside , was a history graduate enamored with the Captain America mythos , going so far to have his appearance surgically altered to resemble Rogers and legally change his name to `` Captain America '' , becoming the new `` 1950s Captain America '' .
He self-administered to himself and his pupil James `` Jack '' Monroe a flawed , incomplete copy of the Super-Serum , which made no mention about the necessary Vita-Ray portion of the treatment .
As a result , while Burnside and Monroe became the new Captain America and Bucky , they became violently paranoid , often raving about innocent people being communist sympathizers during the height of the Red Scare of the 1950s .
Rogers eventually re-assumes it after coming to consider that the identity could be a symbol of American ideals and not Captain America government ; it 's a personal conviction epitomized when he later confronted a corrupt Army officer attempting to manipulate him by appealing to his loyalty , `` I 'm loyal to nothing , General ... except the American Dream '' .
In the story arc `` The Death of Captain America '' , Rogers is indicted on criminal charges for his anti-registration efforts , and in Captain America vol .
Captain America and the Avengers teams end up forming a militia for a last stand against the forces of the Serpent .
Captain America is then revealed that Captain America , Nick Fury , and Black Widow are the only ones who know that Bucky actually survived the fight with Skadi as Bucky resumes his identity as Winter Soldier .
Even worse , the attempts have instead often created psychopathic supervillains of which Captain America 1950s imitator and Nuke are the most notorious examples .
Despite his high profile as one of the world 's most popular and recognizable superheroes , Rogers has a broad understanding of the espionage community , largely through his ongoing relationship with S.H.I.E.L.D.
However , during the following half a decade , the necessary amount was raised and the building opened on Feb. 17 , 1968 , less than one month after the National Basketball Association played Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame 18th All-Star Game .
This Tip-Off Classic has been the start to the college basketball season ever since - and although Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame does not always take place in Springfield , Massachusetts , generally Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame returns every few years .
The two entities are separated by the Interstate 91 elevated highway - one of the eastern United States ' busiest highways - which , essentially , inhibits foot-traffic and other interaction between Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame and Springfield 's increasingly lively Metro Center .
Sportswriters and commentators are elected as full-fledged members ( in contrast to the Baseball Hall of Fame that places Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in separate wings that are not considered in the `` real '' Hall of Fame ) .
The men 's award , given since 1969 , is voted on by the National Association of Basketball Coaches ( NABC ) , and the women 's , given since 1984 , by members of the Women 's Basketball Coaches Association .
However , there is a substantial amount of overlap between the practice of law and various other professions where clients are represented by agents .
Moreover , a growing number of legal document assistants ( LDAs ) are offering services which have traditionally been offered only by lawyers and their employee paralegals .
Conversely , the definition of `` unauthorized practice of law '' is variable , and is often conclusory and tautological , i.e. , Practice of law is the doing of a lawyer 's or counselor 's work by a non-lawyer for money .
The definitions and tests employed by courts to delineate unauthorized practice by non-lawyers have been vague or conclusory , while jurisdictions have differed significantly in describing what constitutes unauthorized practice in particular areas .
Moreover , many jurisdictions have authorized law students and others not locally admitted to represent indigent persons or others as part of clinical legal education programs ... The rest of the article goes on to describe out-of-court activities , particularly drafting of documents and giving advice , and whether that is considered to be unauthorized practice of law , which is more controversial .
`` Unauthorized practice of law '' ( UPL ) is an act sometimes prohibited by statute , regulation , or court rules .
Thus , New Jersey has a law which makes it a `` disorderly persons offense '' to knowingly to engage in Practice of law , and a `` crime in the fourth degree '' to commit UPL if one ( a ) creates a false impression that one is a lawyer ; ( b ) derives a benefit from UPL , or ( c ) causes an injury by UPL .
Money-changers ( an essential service at a time when each town or region had Chartres Cathedral own currency ) had their benches , or banques , near the west portals and also in the nave itself .
Although the town of Chartres Cathedral was under the judicial and tax authority of the Counts of Blois , the area immediately surrounding Chartres Cathedral , known as the cloître , was in effect a free-trade zone governed by the church authorities , who were entitled to the taxes from all commercial activity taking place there .
The undamaged western towers and façade were incorporated into the new works , as was the earlier crypt , effectively limiting the designers of the new building to the same general plan as Chartres Cathedral predecessor .
The south porch with most of Chartres Cathedral sculpture was installed by 1210 , and by 1215 the north porch had been completed and the western rose installed .
The cathedral has been fortunate in being spared the damage suffered by so many during the Wars of Religion and the Revolution , though the lead roof was removed to make bullets and the Directorate threatened to destroy the building as Chartres Cathedral upkeep , without a roof , had become too onerous .
From the ambulatory radiate three deep semi-circular chapels ( overlying the deep chapels of Fulbert 's 11th-century crypt ) and four much shallower ones .
This pier design , known as pilier cantonné was to prove highly influential and subsequently featured in a number of other high gothic churches .
Although the sculpture on the portals at Chartres Cathedral is generally of a high standard , the various carved elements inside , such as the capitals and string courses , are relatively poorly finished ( when compared for example with those at Reims or Soissons ) -- the reason is simply that the portals were carved from the finest Parisian limestone , or ' ` calcaire ' ' , while the internal capitals were carved from the local Berchere stone that is hard to work and can be brittle .
Most cathedrals of the period had a mixture of windows containing plain or grisaille glass and windows containing dense stained glass panels , with the result that the brightness of the former tended to diminish the impact and legibility of the latter .
The majority of the windows now visible at Chartres Cathedral were made and installed between 1205 and 1240 , however four lancets preserve panels of Romanesque glass from the 12th century which survived the fire of 1195 .
The subjects depicted in these windows , made between 1205 and 1235 , include stories from the Old and New Testament and the Lives of the Saints as well as typological cycles and symbolic images such as the signs of the zodiac and labours of the months .
Furthermore , although they became powerful and wealthy organisations in the later medieval period , none of these trade guilds had actually been founded when the glass was being made in the early 13th century .
Whereas the lower windows in the nave arcades and the ambulatory consist of one simple lancet per bay , the clerestory windows are each made up of a pair of lancets with a plate-traceried rose window above .
The western rose , made c. 1215 and 12 m in diameter shows the Last Judgement -- a traditional theme for west façades .
Beyond this is a ring of 12 diamond-shaped openings containing the Old Testament Kings of Judah , another ring of smaller lozenges containing the arms of France and Castille , and finally a ring of semicircles containing Old Testament Prophets holding scrolls .
The presence of the arms of the French king ( yellow fleurs-de-lis on a blue background ) and of his mother , Blanche of Castile ( yellow castles on a red background ) are taken as a sign of royal patronage for this window .
Two outer rings of twelve circles each contain the 24 Elders of the Apocalypse , crowned and carrying phials and musical instruments .
The central door was only opened for the entry of processions on major festivals , of which the most important was the Adventus or installation of a new bishop .
Some see this as a depiction of the Ascension of Christ ( in which case the figures on the lower lintel would represent the disciples witnessing the event ) while others see it as representing the Parousia , or Second Coming of Christ ( in which case the lintel figures could be either the prophets who foresaw that event or else the ` Men of Galilee ' mentioned in Acts 1:9 -11 ) .
Most obvious are the jamb statues afixed to the columns flanking the doorways -- tall , slender standing figures of kings and queens from whom the Portail Royal derived Chartres Cathedral name .
Carved into these capitals is a very lengthy narrative depicting the life of the Virgin and the life and Passion of Christ .
Although the role of Fulbert himself as a scholar and teacher has been questioned , perhaps his greatest talent was as an administrator , who established the conditions in which the school could flourish , as well as laying the foundations for the rebuilding of Chartres Cathedral after the fire of 1020 .
By the middle of the century the importance of Chartres Cathedral had begun to shift away from education and towards pilgrimage , a changing emphasis reflected in the subsequent architectural developments .
Chartres was the primary basis for the fictional Cathedral in David Macaulay 's Cathedral : The Story of Chartres Cathedral Construction and the animated special based on this book .
The flea body is hard , polished , and covered with many hairs and short spines directed backward , which also assist Flea movements on the host .
Flea may however remain resting during this period until Flea receive a signal that a host is near - vibrations ( including sound ) , heat , and carbon dioxide are all stimuli indicating the probable presence of a host .
Adult female rabbit fleas , Spilopsyllus cuniculi , can detect the changing levels of cortisol and corticosterone , hormones in the rabbit 's blood that indicate she is getting close to giving birth .
While , compared to many other insect groups , fleas have been studied and classified fairly thoroughly , details still remain to be learned about the evolutionary relationships among the different flea lineages .
Thorough vacuuming , washing linens in hot water , and treating all hosts in the immediate environment ( the entire household , for example ) are essential and if possible on a regular basis .
Although all these products are effective in fighting against flea and tick infestations , Flea have different active ingredients and , because cats can not metabolize some of the compounds of the product , care must be taken in Flea use .
However , use of shampoo or mild detergent will reduce the surface tension of the water , allowing Flea to soak in more deeply , and brushing or combing the fur during the bath can also push the water more deeply into the fur .
Using dehumidifiers with air conditioning and vacuuming all may interrupt the flea life cycle .
Altering even one of these environmental factors may be enough to drastically lower and eliminate an infestation .
Christian countercult movement asserts that non-fundamental Christian sects whose beliefs are partially or wholly not in accordance with the Bible are erroneous .
Christian countercult movement also states that a religious sect can be considered a cult if Christian countercult movement beliefs involve a denial of what Christian countercult movement view as any of the essential Christian teachings such as salvation , the Trinity , Jesus himself as a person , his works and his miracles , his crucifixion , his death , his resurrection , his return , and the Rapture .
The first known usage of the term `` cult '' by a Protestant apologist to denote a group is heretical or unorthodox is in Anti-Christian Cults by A. H. Barrington , published in 1898 .
This was reflected in several chapters contributed to the multi-volume work released in 1915 The Fundamentals , where apologists criticised the teachings of Charles Taze Russell , Mary Baker Eddy ( Christian Science ) , the Mormons and Spiritualists .
A mid-1980s debate about apologetic methodology between Ronald Enroth and J. Gordon Melton , led the latter to place more emphasis in his publications on differentiating Christian countercult movement from the secular anti-cult .
The only existing umbrella organization within Christian countercult movement in the USA is the EMNR ( Evangelical Ministries to New Religions ) founded in 1982 which has the evangelical Lausanne Covenant as governing document and which stresses mission , scholarship , accountability and networking .
Some apologists , such as Francis J. Beckwith , have emphasised a philosophical approach , pointing out logical , epistemological and metaphysical problems within the teachings of a particular group .
Both Hunt , and Constance Cumbey , have applied a conspiracy model to interpreting the emergence of New Age spirituality and linking that to speculations about fulfilled prophecies heralding Christ 's reappearance .
Sir Patrick Stewart has portrayed Professor X throughout the X-Men films , and the X-Men Legends games .
The Principality of Catalonia existed in the north-eastern areas of Spain between 9th and 18th centuries , and based its sovereignty in the `` Constitutions of the Principality of Catalonia , '' until the defeat of the Catalans in the succession war for the throne of what ( at that time ) were commonly named as `` the kingdoms of Spain '' ( 1701-1714 ) .
This led to political fragmentation as the king 's lands were broken into mini-states ruled by princes and dukes who wielded absolute power over their small territories .
A banking family from Florence , the Medici took control of governments in various Italian regions and even assumed the papacy .
Some of these instances were merely religious offices without sovereign power over any territory , while others , such as Salzburg and Durham , shared some of the characteristics of secular princes .
During 1856 in Kansas , John Brown (abolitionist) commanded forces at the Battle of Black Jack and the Battle of Osawatomie .
John Brown (abolitionist) was tried for treason against the Commonwealth of Virginia , the murder of five men and inciting a slave insurrection .
Historians agree that the Harpers Ferry raid in 1859 escalated tensions that , a year later , led to secession and the American Civil War .
Unlike most other Northerners , who advocated peaceful resistance to the pro-slavery faction , John Brown (abolitionist) believed that peaceful resistance was shown to be ineffective and that the only way to defeat the oppressive system of slavery was through violent insurrection .
During the Kansas campaign John Brown (abolitionist) and John Brown (abolitionist) supporters killed five pro-slavery southerners in what became known as the Pottawatomie Massacre in May 1856 in response to the raid of the `` free soil '' city of Lawrence , Kansas .
During the raid , John Brown (abolitionist) seized the armory ; seven people were killed , and ten or more were injured .
Brown 's actions prior to the Civil War as an abolitionist , and the tactics John Brown (abolitionist) chose , still make John Brown (abolitionist) a controversial figure today .
John Brown (abolitionist) is sometimes memorialized as a heroic martyr and a visionary and sometimes vilified as a madman and a terrorist .
John Brown (abolitionist) was the fourth of the eight children of Owen Brown ( February 16 , 1771 -- May 8 , 1856 ) and Ruth Mills ( January 25 , 1772 -- December 9 , 1808 ) and grandson of Capt.
Brown 's father became a supporter of the Oberlin Institute ( original name of Oberlin College ) in its early stage , although John Brown (abolitionist) was ultimately critical of the school 's `` Perfectionist '' leanings , especially renowned in the preaching and teaching of Charles Finney and Asa Mahan .
John Brown (abolitionist) hoped to become a Congregationalist minister , but money ran out and John Brown (abolitionist) suffered from eye inflammations , which forced John Brown (abolitionist) to give up the academy and return to Ohio .
In 1825 , Brown and John Brown (abolitionist) family moved to New Richmond , Pennsylvania , where John Brown (abolitionist) bought 200 acres ( 81 hectares ) of land .
During this period , John Brown (abolitionist) operated an interstate business involving cattle and leather production along with a kinsman , Seth Thompson , from eastern Ohio .
Like other determined men of John Brown (abolitionist) time and background , John Brown (abolitionist) tried many different business efforts in an attempt to get out of debt .
Along with tanning hides and cattle trading , John Brown (abolitionist) also undertook horse and sheep breeding , the last of which was to become a notable aspect of John Brown (abolitionist) pre-public vocation .
As Brown 's associations grew among sheep farmers of the region , John Brown (abolitionist) expertise was often discussed in agricultural journals even as John Brown (abolitionist) widened the scope of John Brown (abolitionist) travels in conjunction with sheep and wool concerns ( which often brought John Brown (abolitionist) into contact with other fervent anti-slavery people as well ) .
From 1846 until John Brown (abolitionist) left Springfield in 1850 , John Brown was a parishioner at the Free Church , where John Brown (abolitionist) witnessed abolitionist lectures by Frederick Douglass and Sojourner Truth .
In 1847 , after speaking at the `` Free Church , '' the famed African-American abolitionist Frederick Douglass spent a night speaking with John Brown , after which John Brown (abolitionist) wrote , `` from this night spent with John Brown in Springfield , Mass. in 1847 while John Brown (abolitionist) continued to write and speak against slavery , John Brown (abolitionist) became all the same less hopeful for its peaceful abolition .
While in Springfield , as Brown learned more about abolitionism and the Underground Railroad , John Brown (abolitionist) also learned more about the region 's mercantile elite , which while initially a ` curse ' , proved ultimately to be a ` blessing ' to Brown 's later activities in Kansas and at Harper 's Ferry .
Before John Brown (abolitionist) left Springfield , Massachusetts , in 1850 , the United States passed the notorious Fugitive Slave Act , a law which mandated that authorities in free states aid in the return of escaped slaves and imposed penalties on those who aided in their escape .
On leaving Springfield in 1850 , John Brown (abolitionist) instructed the League of Gileadites to act `` quickly , quietly , and efficiently '' to protect slaves that escaped to Springfield -- words that would foreshadow Brown 's later actions preceding Harper 's Ferry .
In speeches , John Brown (abolitionist) pointed to the martyrs Elijah Lovejoy and Charles Turner Torrey as whites `` ready to help blacks challenge slave-catchers '' .
In Springfield , Brown found a city that shared John Brown (abolitionist) own anti-slavery passions , and each seemed to educate the other .
But in late 1855 and early 1856 it was increasingly clear to John Brown (abolitionist) that pro-slavery forces were willing to violate the rule of law in order to force Kansas to become a slave state .
John Brown (abolitionist) was particularly affected by the Sacking of Lawrence in May 1856 , in which a sheriff-led posse destroyed newspaper offices and a hotel .
Brown was outraged by both the violence of the pro-slavery forces , and also by what John Brown (abolitionist) saw as a weak and cowardly response by the antislavery partisans and the Free State settlers , whom John Brown (abolitionist) described as `` cowards , or worse '' ( Reynolds pp.
On September 7 , John Brown (abolitionist) entered Lawrence to meet with Free State leaders and help fortify against a feared assault .
In the following months , John Brown (abolitionist) continued to raise funds , visiting Worcester , Springfield , New Haven , Syracuse and Boston .
In Boston , John Brown (abolitionist) met Henry David Thoreau and Ralph Waldo Emerson .
Forbes had not received John Brown (abolitionist) salary and was still feuding with Brown , so John Brown (abolitionist) returned to the East instead of venturing into Kansas .
Brown and twelve of John Brown (abolitionist) followers , including John Brown (abolitionist) son Owen , traveled to Chatham , Ontario where John Brown (abolitionist) convened on May 8 a Constitutional Convention .
One-third of Chatham 's 6,000 residents were fugitive slaves , and it was here that John Brown (abolitionist) was introduced to Harriet Tubman .
This crisis occurred when Hugh Forbes , Brown 's mercenary , tried to expose the plans to Massachusetts Senator Henry Wilson and others .
While passing through Chicago , John Brown (abolitionist) met with Allan Pinkerton who arranged and raised the fare for the passage to Detroit .
Over the course of the next few months John Brown (abolitionist) traveled again through Ohio , New York , Connecticut and Massachusetts to draw up more support for the cause .
Kagi 's draft plan called for a brigade of 4,500 men , but John Brown (abolitionist) had only 21 men ( 16 white and 5 black : three free blacks , one freed slave , and a fugitive slave ) .
John Brown (abolitionist) had received 200 Beecher 's Bibles -- breechloading .52 caliber Sharps rifles -- and pikes from northern abolitionist societies in preparation for the raid .
The armory was a large complex of buildings that contained 100,000 muskets and rifles , which John Brown (abolitionist) planned to seize and use to arm local slaves .
As Frederick Douglass and Brown 's family testified , John Brown (abolitionist) strategy was essentially to deplete Virginia of its slaves , causing the institution to collapse in one county after another , until the movement spread into the South , essentially wreaking havoc on the economic viability of the pro-slavery states .
Brown was accompanied by the sheriff and John Brown (abolitionist) assistants , but no minister since John Brown (abolitionist) had consistently rejected the ministrations of pro-slavery clergy .
One senator wrote to John Brown (abolitionist) wife that `` The members on both sides are mostly armed with deadly weapons and it is said that the friends of each are armed in the galleries '' .
By the mid-20th century , some scholars were fairly convinced that John Brown (abolitionist) was a fanatic and killer , while some African Americans sustained a positive view of John Brown (abolitionist) .
Toledo ( 2002 ) , Peterson ( 2002 ) , DeCaro ( 2002 , 2007 ) , Reynolds ( 2005 ) , and Carton ( 2006 ) are critically appreciative of Brown 's history , far from the opinions of earlier writers .
DeCaro likewise complains of writers taking `` unstudied liberties '' and concludes that in the 20th century alone , `` poisonous portrayals of John Brown (abolitionist) were so prevalent as virtually to have formed one long screed of hyperbole and sarcasm in the name of historical narrative '' .
The connection between John Brown (abolitionist) life and many of the slave uprisings in the Caribbean was clear from the outset .
Du Bois notes , the involvement of slaves in the American Revolutions , as well as the `` upheaval in Hayti , and the new enthusiasm for human rights , led to a wave of emancipation which started in Vermont ... swept through New England and Pennsylvania , ending finally in New York and New Jersey '' .
The 1839 slave insurrection aboard the Spanish ship La Amistad , off the coast of Cuba , provides a poignant example of John Brown (abolitionist) support and appeal towards Caribbean slave revolts .
However , through trickery , the ship ended up in the United States , where Cinque and John Brown (abolitionist) men stood trial .
Furthermore , she noted Brown 's `` admiration of Cinques ' character and management in carrying John Brown (abolitionist) points with so little bloodshed !
The specific knowledge John Brown gained from the tactics employed in the Haitian Revolution , and other Caribbean revolts , was of paramount importance when Brown turned John Brown (abolitionist) sights to the federal arsenal at Harper 's Ferry , Virginia .
As Brown 's cohort Richard Realf explained to a committee of the 36th Congress , `` John Brown (abolitionist) had posted John Brown (abolitionist) in relation to the wars of Toussaint L’Ouverture ... John Brown (abolitionist) had become thoroughly acquainted with the wars in Hayti and the islands round about '' .
The idea of creating Maroon communities was the impetus for the creation of John Brown (abolitionist) `` Provisional Constitution and Ordinances for the People of the United States , '' which helped to detail how such communities would be governed .
Richard Realf , a cohort of Brown in Kansas , noted that John Brown (abolitionist) not only studied the slave revolts in the Caribbean , but focused more specifically on the maroons of Jamaica and those involved in Haiti 's liberation .
Brown 's friend Richard Hinton similarly noted that John Brown (abolitionist) knew `` by heart , '' the occurrences in Jamaica and Haiti .
Thomas Wentworth Higginson , a cohort of Brown 's and a member of the Secret Six , stated that Brown 's plan involved getting `` together bands and families of fugitive slaves '' and `` establish them permanently in those mountain fastnesses , like the Maroons of Jamaica and Surinam '' .
The similarities between John Brown (abolitionist) attempted insurrection and the Haitian Revolution , in both methods , motivations and resolve , is still seen today as the main avenue in Haiti 's capital Port-au-Prince is still named for John Brown (abolitionist) as a sign of solidarity .
John Brown (abolitionist) is the fourth of the eight children of Owen Brown ( February 16 , 1771 -- May 8 , 1856 ) and Ruth Mills ( January 25 , 1772 -- December 9 , 1808 ) and grandson of Capt.
John Brown (abolitionist) is a fanatic and killer .
John Brown (servant) ( 8 December 1826 -- 27 March 1883 ) was a Scottish personal servant and favourite of Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom for many years .
`` Friend more than Servant , Loyal , Truthful , Brave Self less than Duty , even to the Grave '' Victoria 's children and ministers resented the high regard she had for John Brown (servant) , and , inevitably , stories circulated that there was something improper about their relationship .
The Queen 's daughters joked that Brown was `` Mama 's lover '' , while Edward Stanley , 15th Earl of Derby , wrote in John Brown (servant) diary that Brown and Victoria slept in adjoining rooms `` contrary to etiquette and even decency '' .
Whether John Brown (servant) and Victoria were actual lovers , however , is impossible to prove .
She called John Brown (servant) the Munshi , and John Brown (servant) came to be resented even more than John Brown had been : unlike Brown , whose loyalty was without question , there was evidence that the mendacious and manipulative Karim exploited John Brown (servant) position for personal gain and prestige .
Billy Connolly stars as John Brown (servant) and Dame Judi Dench as Victoria , with Antony Sher appearing as Benjamin Disraeli .
John Brown (servant) is a Scottish personal servant and favourite of Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom for many years .
The Chauci ( , and identical or similar in other regional modern languages ) were an ancient Germanic tribe living in the low-lying region between the Rivers Ems and Elbe , on both sides of the Weser and ranging as far inland as the upper Weser .
In the Germanic pre-Migration Period ( i.e. , before c. 300 AD ) the Chauci and the related Frisians , Saxons , and Angles inhabited the Continental European coast from the Zuyder Zee to south Jutland .
This had been noted by Tacitus , for example when he mentioned the names of two kings of the 1st century Frisians and added that they were kings `` as far as the Germans are under kings '' .
Yorke ( The Conversion of Britain c. 600 -- 800 , 2006 ) , speaking of the 5th century , describes the ` Continental Saxons ' ( which then included Chauci ) as having powerful local families and a dominant military leader .
He said that the Chauci , Cimbri and Teutoni -- the people from the River Ems through Jutland and for some distance inland -- were members of a group called Ingaevones ( a `` Cimbri '' people were also given as members of Chauci , and this is likely a different people ) .
A negotiation between the Romans and Gannascus was arranged under the auspices of the ` Greater Chauci ' , which the Romans used as an opportunity to assassinate their opponent .
Caistor-by-Norwich , Chelmsford and Forum Hadriani ( present day Voorburg ) ( the civitas of the Canninefates near The Hague ) were all fortified c. 200 , and the Romans began a defensive system of protection especially along the coasts of Britain and the Continent .
Ethnically , Pliny the Elder groups them with their neighbours the Suebi and Chatti , as well as the Hermunduri , as Hermiones , one of the Germanic groupings said to descend from an ancestor named Mannus .
At this time Cherusci was split between Arminius ( known in modern German as `` Hermann der Cherusker '' , although his actual Germanic name was more likely Erminaz ) and Segestes .
According to Tacitus ( Annals 1 , 51 ) , an area 50 Roman miles wide was laid to waste with fire and sword : `` No sex , no age found pity '' .
Claudius Ptolemy in his Geography , describes the Χαιρουσκοὶ and Καμαυοὶ ( Cherusci and Chamavi ) as living near each other and also near to `` Mount Melibocus '' ( probably the Harz maountains ) and to the Calucones , who lived on both banks of the Elbe .
The Syr Darya , also transliterated Syrdarya or Sirdaryo , is a river in Central Asia , sometimes known as the Jaxartes or Yaxartes from Syr Darya Ancient Greek name .
The name , which comes from Persian and has long been used in the East , is a relatively recent one in western writings ; prior to the early 20th century , the river was known by various versions of Syr Darya ancient Greek name .
In reality , he had just renamed ( and possibly , expanded ) the city of Cyropolis founded by king Cyrus the Great of Persia , more than two centuries earlier .
This fleece now hung from a tree in the grove of the Colchian Ares , guarded night and day by a dragon that never slept .
A Hallmark presentation TV movie , Jason and the Argonauts ( 2000 ) , shows Jason having to settle for men with no sailing experience .
Jason and the Argo , along with a small number of the more legendary Argonauts and Greeks , were featured in the 2008 video game Rise of Argonauts .
Later Athamas became enamored of and married Ino , the daughter of Cadmus .
Ino was jealous of her stepchildren and plotted their deaths : in some versions , she persuaded Athamas that sacrificing Phrixus was the only way to end the drought .
Nephele , or her spirit , appeared to the children with a winged ram whose fleece was of gold .
The story of Golden Fleece appeard to have little resonance for Athenians of the Classic age , for only two representations of it on Attic-painted wares of the fifth century have been identified : a krater at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and a kylix in the Vatican collections .
Pomponius Mela writes in his Description of the World ( III .3.31 ) in reference to the Kattegat and the waters surrounding the Danish isles ( see the Codanus sinus ) : `` On the bay are the Cimbri and the Teutoni ; farther on , the farthest people of Germania , Irminones '' .
Pliny 's Natural History ( 4.100 ) claims that Irminones include the Suebi , Hermunduri , Chatti , and Cherusci .
In Nennius the name Mannus ( see Mannaz ) and his three sons appear in corrupted form , the ancestor of the Irminones appearing as Armenon .
A domestic long-haired cat ( or long-haired moggie in British English ) is a cat of mixed ancestry -- thus not belonging to any particular recognised cat breed -- s possessing a coat of semi-long to long fur .
In the cat fancy , domestic long-haired cats cats may be classified with organisation-specific terminology , such as Domestic Longhair ( DLH ) , House Cat , Longhair ( HCL ) , or Semi-Longhair Household Pet .
Such a pseudo-breed is used for registry classification purposes , since while not commonly bred as show cats , some mixed-breed cats are actually pedigreed and entered into cat shows ) .
The Central Pacific Railroad ( CPRR ) is the former name of the railroad network built between California and Utah , USA that formed part of the `` First Transcontinental Railroad '' in North America .
Sec. 11 of the Act also provided that the issuance of bonds `` shall be treble the number per mile '' ( to $ 48,000 ) for tracked grade completed over and within the two mountain ranges ( but limited to a total of 300 mi at this rate ) , and `` doubled '' ( to $ 32,000 ) per mile of completed grade laid between the two mountain ranges .
On May 19 , 1863 , the electors of the City and County of San Francisco passed this bond by a vote of 6,329 to 3,116 , in a highly controversial Special Election .
The City and County 's financing of the investment through the issuance and delivery of Bonds was delayed for two years , when Mayor Henry P. Coon , and the County Clerk , Wilhelm Loewy , each refused to countersign the Bonds .
Central Pacific Railroad is the former name of the railroad network built between California and Utah , USA that formed part of the `` First Transcontinental Railroad '' in North America .
Perhaps originating north of the River Main , the Quadi and Marcomanni migrated into what is now Moravia , western Slovakia and Lower Austria where they displaced Celtic cultures and were first noticed by Romans in 8 -- 6 BC , briefly documented by Tacitus in his Germania .
Tacitus in Germania only mentions the Quadi in the same breath as the Marcomanni , alike in warlike spirit , alike governed by `` kings '' of their own noble stock , `` descended from the noble line of Maroboduus and Tudrus , '' the `` Tudric '' line apparently kings among Quadi .
Quadi frontiers for the next 350 years or more were the Marcomanni to the west , Buri to the north , Sarmatian Iazgyians and Asding Vandals arriving to the east somewhat later , and the Roman Empire to the south .
In the 4th century , Valentinian spent much of his reign defending the Rhine frontier against a mixed horde of Sarmatians , Goths , and Quadi under their king Gabinius , who was slain at the treaty table by the Roman Marcellinus , son of the praefect of Gaul , Maximinus .
Uncertain and disputed is the association of the Rugii with the name of the isle of Rügen and the tribe of the Rugini .
Rugii had possibly migrated from southwest Norway to Pomerania in the 1th century AD.Rogaland or Rygjafylke is a region ( fylke ) in south west Norway .
Ptolemaeus in 150 AD mentions a place named Rhougion ( also transliterated from Greek as Rougion , Rugion , Latinized Rugium or Rugia ) and a tribe named Routikleioi in the same area , both names have been associated with Rugii .
One hypothesis , based on the sudden appearance of large amounts of Roman solidi and migrations of other groups after the breakdown of the Hun empire in 453 , suggest a partial re-migration of earlier emigrants to their former northern homelands .
After Flaccitheus 's death , the Rugii of Rugiland were led by king Feletheus , also called Feva , and his wife Gisa .
When Louis Philippe 's grandfather died in 1785 , Louis Philippe I father succeeded Louis Philippe I as Duke of Orléans and Louis Philippe succeeded Louis Philippe I father as Duke of Chartres .
Shortly thereafter , the Girondists moved to arrest Louis Philippe I and the two younger brothers of Louis Philippe , Louis-Charles and Antoine Philippe ; the latter had been serving in the Army of Italy .
Adélaïde went to live with her great-aunt the Princess of Conti at Fribourg , then to Bavaria and Hungary and , finally , to her mother who was exiled in Spain .
During their sojourn , the Orléans princes travelled throughout the country , visiting as far south as Nashville and as far north as Maine .
In 1830 , the July Revolution overthrew Charles X , who abdicated in favour of Louis Philippe I 10-year-old grandson , Henri , Duke of Bordeaux , and , naming Louis Philippe Lieutenant général du royaume , charged Louis Philippe I to announce to the popularly elected Chamber of Deputies Louis Philippe I desire to have Louis Philippe I grandson succeed Louis Philippe I .
As a consequence , because the chamber was aware of Louis Philippe 's liberal policies and of Louis Philippe I popularity with the masses , they proclaimed Louis Philippe , who for eleven days had been acting as the regent for Louis Philippe I small cousin , as the new French king , displacing the senior branch of the House of Bourbon .
Charles X and Louis Philippe I family , including Louis Philippe I grandson , went into exile in Britain .
The clashes of 1830 and 1848 between the Legitimists and the Orleanists over who was the rightful monarch were resumed in the 1870s .
Philippe ( King Philip V of Spain ) , however , had renounced Louis Philippe I rights to the throne of France to prevent the much-feared union of France and Spain .
Opera singers Cynthia Makris and Raimo Sirkiä built their house on the lot where the house of Rautavaara was located .
Shell sort , also known as Shell sort or Shell 's method , is an in-place comparison sort .
Gonnet and Baeza-Yates observed that Shell sort makes the fewest comparisons on average when the ratios of successive gaps are roughly equal to 2.2 .
The worst-case complexity of any version of Shell sort is of higher order : Plaxton , Poonen , and Suel showed that it grows at least as rapidly as Ω ( N ( logN/log logN ) 2 ) .
Charles II ( 10 October 1332 -- 1 January 1387 ) , called `` Charles the Bad '' , was King of Navarre 1349 -- 1387 and Count of Évreux 1343 -- 1387 .
Since Charles II of Navarre father was first cousin to King Philip VI of France and Charles II of Navarre mother , Joan II of Navarre , was the only child of King Louis X , Charles of Navarre was ` born of the fleur de lys on both sides ' , as Charles II of Navarre liked to point out , but Charles II of Navarre succeeded to a shrunken inheritance as far as Charles II of Navarre French lands were concerned .
Greeted as a hero when Charles II of Navarre entered Amiens , Charles II of Navarre was invited to enter Paris by the Estates General , which Charles II of Navarre did with a large retinue and was ` received like a newly-crowned monarch ' .
Before long there were anti-English riots in the city and Charles , with Etienne Marcel , was forced by the mob to lead them against the marauding garrisons to the north and west of the city -- against Charles II of Navarre own men .
Charles of Navarre 's military position in Northern France had deteriorated under attacks from the Dauphin 's forces throughout the spring , and with the news of Edward 's impending invasion Charles decided Charles II of Navarre must reach an accommodation with the Dauphin .
After the comparative failure of Edward 's campaign in the winter of 1359 -- 60 ( the Dauphin did not offer battle and pursued a ` scorched earth ' policy with the populace seeking shelter in the walled towns while the English endured terrible weather ) a final peace treaty was agreed between Edward III and John II at Brétigny , while John II concluded a separate peace with Charles II of Navarre at Calais .
Charles was forgiven Charles II of Navarre crimes against France and restored to all Charles II of Navarre rights and properties ; 300 of Charles II of Navarre followers received a royal pardon .
Charles accompanied them on their journey but , not wanting to take part in the campaign personally , got Olivier de Mauny to stage an ambush in which Charles was ` captured ' and held until the reconquest of Castile was over .
With the resumption of war between France and England in 1369 Charles saw fresh opportunities to increase Charles II of Navarre status in France .
The draft treaties and correspondence with the English found in their baggage , along with Jacques de Rue 's confessions under interrogation , were all that Charles V needed to send an army into northern Normandy to capture all the King of Navarre 's remaining domains there ( April -- June 1378 ) .
In June -- July 1378 the armies of Castile , commanded by John of Trastámara , invaded Navarre and laid the country waste .
Allan Stewart , a former Office Minister of Scotland and a Conservative Party MP for Eastwood , also said that Coleman should be granted immunity so he could testify in Scotland .
When invited by a television journalist to rank Tony Blair among the eight prime ministers Tam Dalyell had observed as a parliamentarian , Tam Dalyell cited policy over Kosovo and Iraq as reasons for placing Tam Dalyell party leader at the bottom of the list .
Following Tam Dalyell outspoken opposition to the 2003 invasion of Iraq and criticism of the government , Downing Street suggested that Tam Dalyell might face withdrawal of the Labour whip .
While such interfaces as Ethernet , FireWire , and USB all send data as a serial stream , the term `` serial port '' usually identifies hardware more or less compliant to the RS-232 standard , intended to interface with a modem or with a similar communication device .
Some computers , such as the IBM PC , used an integrated circuit called a UART , that converted characters to ( and from ) asynchronous serial form , and automatically looked after the timing and framing of data .
Before large-scale integration ( LSI ) UART integrated circuits were common , a minicomputer or microcomputer would have a serial port made of multiple small-scale integrated circuits to implement shift registers , logic gates , counters , and all the other logic for Serial port .
Standard EIA/TIA 561 specifies a pin assignment , but the `` Yost Serial Device Wiring Standard '' invented by Dave Yost ( and popularized by the Unix System Administration Handbook ) is common on Unix computers and newer devices from Cisco Systems .
Unix-like operating systems usually label the serial port devices / dev/tty The Microsoft MS-DOS and Windows environments refer to serial ports as COM ports : COM1 , COM2 , .
The RS-232 standard is used by many specialized and custom-built devices .
Since the control signals for Serial port can be easily turned on and off by a switch , some applications used the control lines of Serial port to monitor external devices , without exchanging serial data .
The status bits of the serial port could be sampled very rapidly and at predictable times , making Serial port possible for the software to decipher Morse code .
Bit rates commonly supported include 75 , 110 , 300 , 1200 , 2400 , 4800 , 9600 , 19200 , 38400 , 57600 and 115200 bit/s .
When parity is used with Serial port , an extra data bit is sent with each data character , arranged so that the number of 1 bits in each character , including the parity bit , is always odd or always even .
7/E/1 ( 7E1 ) means that an even parity bit is added to the seven data bits for a total of eight bits between the start and stop bits .
In an attempt to prevent this prophecy 's fulfillment , when Jocasta indeed bore a son , Laius had his ankles pierced and tethered together so that he could not crawl ; Jocasta then gave the boy to a servant to abandon ( `` expose '' ) on the nearby mountain .
The infant Oedipus eventually came to the house of Polybus , king of Corinth and his queen , Merope , who adopted him as Oedipus were without children of Oedipus own .
After many years of being son of the king and queen of Corinth , Oedipus was told by a drunk that he was a `` Bastard '' , meaning at that time that he was not of the same blood to them .
Creon ( brother of Jocasta and uncle of Oedipus , unbeknownst to him ) had said that any man who could rid the city of the Sphinx would be made Oedipus , and given the recently widowed Queen Jocasta 's hand in marriage .
Oedipus ' two sons , Eteocles and Polynices , arranged to share the kingdom , each taking an alternating one-year reign .
As prophesied , Oedipus crosses paths with Laius and this leads to a fight where Oedipus slays Laius and most of his guards .
The First play was Laius , the second was Oedipus , and the third was Seven against Thebes .
In Sophocles ' Antigone , when Oedipus stepped down as king of Thebes , he gave the kingdom to his two sons , Eteocles and Polynices , both of whom agreed to alternate the throne every year .
In Chrysippus , Euripides develops backstory on the curse : Laius ' `` sin '' was to have kidnapped Chrysippus , Pelops ' son , in order to violate him , and this caused the gods ' revenge on all his family - boy-loving having been so far an exclusive of the gods themselves , unknown to mortals .
The most striking lines , however , state that in this play Oedipus was blinded by Laius ' attendants , and that this happened before his identity as Laius ' son had been discovered , therefore marking important differences with the Sophoclean treatment of the myth , which is now regarded as the ` standard ' version .
Many attempts have been made to reconstruct the plot of the play , but none of them is more than hypothetical , because of the scanty remains that survive from Oedipus text and of the total absence of ancient descriptions or résumés - though Oedipus has been suggested that a part of Hyginus ' narration of the Oedipus myth might in fact derive from Euripides ' play .
In 1960 , Immanuel Velikovsky ( 1895 -- 1979 ) published a book called Oedipus and Akhnaton which made a comparison between the stories of the legendary Greek figure , Oedipus , and the historic Egyptian King of Thebes , Akhnaton .
The book is presented as a thesis that combines with Velikovsky 's series Ages in Chaos , concluding through his revision of Egyptian history that the Greeks who wrote the tragedy of Oedipus may have penned it in likeness of the life and story of Akhnaton , because in the revision Akhnaton would have lived much closer to the time when the legend first surfaced in Greece , providing an historical basis for the story .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 103,459 people , 41,615 households , and 29,463 families residing in Etowah County, Alabama .
The median income for a household in Etowah County, Alabama was $ 31,170 , and the median income for a family was $ 38,697 .
Tap Roots , a 1948 movie based on a novel , presents a highly fictionalized and inaccurate version of Winston County 's Civil War history .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 24,843 people , 10,107 households , and 7,287 families residing in Winston County, Alabama .
The median income for a household in Winston County, Alabama was $ 28,435 , and the median income for a family was $ 32,628 .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 111,064 people , 43,602 households , and 31,437 families residing in Morgan County, Alabama .
The median income for a household in Morgan County, Alabama was $ 37,803 , and the median income for a family was $ 45,827 .
Morgan County, Alabama is the most populous county in the Decatur Metropolitan Area , and the second most populous county in the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area in the U.S. State of Alabama .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 54,984 people , 22,461 households , and 16,037 families residing in Colbert County, Alabama .
The median income for a household in Colbert County, Alabama was $ 31,954 , and the median income for a family was $ 39,294 .
According to the 2000 census , Coffee County, Alabama has a total area of , of which ( or 99.78 % ) is land and ( or 0.22 % ) is water .
The term clairvoyance ( from French clair meaning `` clear '' and voyance meaning `` vision '' ) is used to refer to the ability to gain information about an object , person , location or physical event through means other than the known human senses , a form of extra-sensory perception .
Many mediums who are good clairvoyants may well have little or no clairaudient capability even though both `` gifts '' belong in the primary channel of clairsensing .
Clairvoyance is often said to require either total darkness or at the most a weak red light .
These were largely qualitative experiments in which selected participants sought to identify a concealed target image , or to provide accurate information about the history of a target object .
Charles Richet , the noted physiologist and , later , Ina Jephson , a member of the Society for Psychical Research , introduced more quantitative methods .
Targ and Puthoff both believed that Uri Geller , retired police commissioner Pat Price and artist Ingo Swann all had genuine psychic abilities .
The first paper by Puthoff and Targ on psychic research to appear in a mainstream peer-reviewed scientific journal was published in Nature in March 1974 ; in it , the team reported some degree of remote viewing success .
In these investigations , a sender , who was isolated in a visually opaque , electrically and acoustically shielded chamber , was stimulated at random by bursts of strobe-light flickers The experimenters reported that , for one receiver , differential alpha block on control and stimulus trials were observed , which showed that some information transfer had occurred .
Randi 's offer has been publicized for three decades and dozens of people have been tested , sometimes under the scrutiny of an independent panel of judges .
In the field of parapsychology , clairaudience from late 17th century French clair , and thus may be termed `` psychic '' or paranormal .
In the field of parapsychology , clairalience ( or alternatively , clairolfactance ) presumably from late 17th century French clair ( clear ) and alience ( smelling ) is a form of extra-sensory perception wherein a person accesses psychic knowledge through the physical sense of smell .
In the field of parapsychology , claircognizance presumably from late 17th century French clair ( clear ) and cognizance ( < ME cognisaunce < OFr conoissance , knowledge ) is a form of extra-sensory perception wherein a person acquires psychic knowledge primarily by means of intrinsic knowledge .
As of the census of 2010 , there were 14,123 people , 5,590 households , and 4,125 families residing in Cleburne County, Alabama .
The median income for a household in Cleburne County, Alabama was $ 30,820 , and the median income for a family was $ 35,579 .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 12,421 people , 4,431 households , and 3,551 families residing in Cleburne County, Alabama .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 10,273 people , 3,234 households , and 2,771 families residing in Cleburne County, Alabama .
In the 1930s and 40 's , Conecuh County, Alabama had a population of more than 25,000 , when there were more people in farming .
During the revolutionary war , Colonel McGillivray formed an acquaintance with many conspicuous royalists , and , among others , with Colonel Joseph Kirkland , of South Carolina .
At midnight , the bloody wretches from the other side , cautiously came over , and , seizing the guns of Kirkland and his men , killed every one of them , except three Negroes , one of whom was the servant of the great Chieftain , as before stated .
While he was dangling in the air , and kicking in the last agonies , the Frenchman stopped his motions with a pistol ball .
Whereas according to the 2010 U.S. As of the census of 2000 , there were 14,089 people , 5,792 households , and 3,938 families residing in Conecuh County, Alabama .
The median income for a household in Conecuh County, Alabama was $ 22,111 , and the median income for a family was $ 31,424 .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 12,202 people , 4,682 households , and 3,408 families residing in Coosa County, Alabama .
The median income for a household in Coosa County, Alabama was $ 29,873 , and the median income for a family was $ 36,082 .
Berthold Alfred Maria Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg ( born 15 March 1905 in Stuttgart -- executed 10 August 1944 in Berlin-Plötzensee ) was a German aristocrat and lawyer who was a key conspirator in the plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler on 20 July 1944 , alongside Berthold Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg younger brother , Colonel Claus Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 13,665 people , 5,577 households , and 3,892 families residing in Crenshaw County, Alabama .
The median income for a household in Crenshaw County, Alabama was $ 26,054 , and the median income for a family was $ 31,724 .
Some have suggested that Thuringii were the remnants of the Hermanduri , that last part of whose name ( - duri ) was corrupted ( - thuri ) and afterwards suffixed with - ing , meaning `` descendants of ( the Hermanduri ) '' .
The Thuringian nobility , which had an admixture of Frankish , Thuringian , and Saxon blood , was not as landed as that of Francia .
Although there is external and internal debate within the chiropractic profession regarding the clinical significance of joint dysfunction/vertebral subluxation complex , the manipulable lesion/functional spinal lesion remains inextricably linked to the profession as basis for spinal manipulation .
Although a wide diversity of ideas currently exists among chiropractors , Chiropractic share the belief that the spine and health are related in a fundamental way , and that this relationship is mediated through the nervous system .
Palmer hypothesized that vertebral joint misalignments , which he termed vertebral subluxations , interfered with the body 's function and Chiropractic inborn ( innate ) ability to heal Chiropractic .
In general , critics of traditional subluxation-based chiropractic ( including chiropractors ) are skeptical of Chiropractic clinical value , dogmatic beliefs and metaphysical approach .
This is still a continuing source of debate within the chiropractic profession as well , with some schools of chiropractic still teaching the traditional/straight subluxation-based chiropractic , while others have moved towards an evidence-based chiropractic that rejects metaphysical foundings and limits Chiropractic to primarily neuromusculoskeletal conditions .
In 2005 , Chiropractic was defined by the World Health Organization as `` a lesion or dysfunction in a joint or motion segment in which alignment , movement integrity and/or physiological function are altered , although contact between joint surfaces remains intact .
In 2005 the WHO published a document , WHO guidelines on basic training and safety in chiropractic that characterized chiropractic as a health profession which `` emphasizes the conservative management of the neuromusculoskeletal system , without the use of medicines and surgery '' .
For example , while one 2009 survey of American chiropractors had found that 73 % classified themselves as `` back pain/musculoskeletal specialists '' , the label `` back and neck pain specialists '' was regarded by 47 % of them as a least desirable description in a 2005 international survey .
Chiropractic are not normally licensed to write medical prescriptions or perform major surgery in the United States , ( although New Mexico has become the first US state to allow `` advanced practice '' trained chiropractors to prescribe certain medications .
Spinal manipulation , which chiropractors call `` spinal adjustment '' or `` Chiropractic adjustment '' , is the most common treatment used in Chiropractic .
More generally , spinal manipulative therapy ( SMT ) describes techniques where the hands are used to manipulate , massage , mobilize , adjust , stimulate , apply traction to , or otherwise influence the spine and related tissues .
Another chiropractic study documented that the largest chiropractic associations in the U.S. and Canada distributed patient brochures which contained unsubstantiated claims .
The vast majority who seek Chiropractic do so for relief from back and neck pain and other neuromusculoskeletal complaints ; most do so specifically for low back pain .
In the U.S. , chiropractic was reported in 1992 as being the largest alternative medical profession , with chiropractors performing over 90 % of all manipulative treatments , although `` serious complications of lumbar manipulation , including paraplegia and death '' were also reported .
Public perception of chiropractic compares unfavorably with mainstream medicine with regard to ethics and honesty : in a 2006 Gallup Poll of U.S. adults , chiropractors rated last among seven health care professions for level of honesty and ethical standards , with 36 % of poll respondents rating chiropractors very high or high ; the corresponding ratings for the other professions ranged from 62 % for dentists to 84 % for nurses .
A longstanding feud between Chiropractic and medical doctors continued for decades .
This culminated in a landmark 1987 decision , Wilk v. AMA , in which the court found that the AMA had engaged in unreasonable restraint of trade and conspiracy , and which ended the AMA 's de facto boycott of chiropractic .
His victims are the weak-minded , ignorant and superstitious , those foolish people who have been sick for years and have become tired of the regular physician and want health by the short-cut method ... he has certainly profited by the ignorance of his victims ... His increase in business shows what can be done in Davenport , even by a quack '' .
Unsubstantiated claims about the efficacy of chiropractic have continued to be made by individual chiropractors and chiropractic associations .
Relative contraindications are conditions where increased risk is acceptable in some situations and where low-force and soft-tissue techniques are treatments of choice ; these contraindications include osteoporosis .
The study reported frequency of serious adverse effect as between strokes 50 per 100,000 , 1.46 per 10milloin serious adverse events and death rate of 2.68 per 10 million , though it was determined that there was inadequate data to be conclusive .
Several case reports show temporal associations between interventions and potentially serious complications .
The published medical literature contains reports of 26 deaths since 1934 following chiropractic manipulations and many more seem to remain unpublished .
Weak to moderately strong evidence supports causation ( as opposed to statistical association ) between cervical manipulative therapy and vertebrobasilar artery stroke .
A 2012 systematic review suggested that the use of spine manipulation in clinical practice is a cost-effective treatment when used alone or in combination with other treatment approaches .
A 2006 systematic cost-effectiveness review found that the reported cost-effectiveness of chiropractic manipulation in the United Kingdom compared favorably with other treatments for back pain , but that reports were based on data from clinical trials without sham controls and that the specific cost-effectiveness of the treatment ( as opposed to non-specific effects ) remains uncertain .
Most chiropractic writings on vaccination focus on Chiropractic negative aspects , claiming that Chiropractic is hazardous , ineffective , and unnecessary .
In addition to traditional chiropractic opposition to water fluoridation and vaccination , chiropractors ' attempts to establish a positive reputation for Chiropractic public health role are also compromised by Chiropractic reputation for recommending repetitive lifelong chiropractic treatment .
A critical evaluation found that research has not demonstrated that spinal manipulation , the main treatment method employed by chiropractors , is effective for any medical condition , with the possible exception of treatment for back pain , whereas another review found manual therapies in general to be effective for back pain , neck pain , some forms of headaches and some extremity joint conditions .
Whereas according to the 2010 U.S. As of the census of 2000 , there were 46,365 people , 17,841 households , and 12,488 families residing in Dallas County, Alabama .
The median income for a household in Dallas County, Alabama was $ 23,370 , and the median income for a family was $ 29,906 .
Lisbon , Coimbra or Alenquer are frequently presented as Luís de Camões birthplace , although the latter is based on a disputable interpretation of one of Luís de Camões poems .
Luís de Camões uncle , Bento de Camões , is credited with this education , owing to Luís de Camões position as Prior at the Monastery of Santa Cruz and Chancellor at the University of Coimbra .
The battle was followed by skirmishes along the trading routes between Egypt and India .
Luís de Camões was charged with managing the properties of missing and deceased soldiers in the Orient .
Here Dale County, Alabama remained until 1870 when , following a courthouse fire in 1869 and the formation of Geneva County ( which took the southern third of Dale County ) , the county seat was moved to the town of Ozark , where it remains .
Portions of the 15th Regiment of Alabama Infantry , which served with great distinction throughout the U.S. Civil War , were recruited in Dale County, Alabama , with all of Co. `` E '' and part of Co. `` H '' being composed of Dale County, Alabama residents .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 49,129 people , 18,878 households , and 13,629 families residing in Dale County, Alabama .
The median income for a household in Dale County, Alabama was $ 31,998 , and the median income for a family was $ 37,806 .
Polyethylene ( abbreviated PE ) or polythene ( IUPAC name polyethene or poly ( methylene ) ) is the most common plastic .
Coordination polymerization is the most pervasive technology , which means that metal chlorides or metal oxides are used .
UHMWPE is polyethylene with a molecular weight numbering in the millions , usually between 3.1 and 5.67 million .
LDPE has a high degree of short and long chain branching , which means that the chains do not pack into the crystal structure as well .
The first industrially practical polyethylene synthesis ( diazomethane is a notoriously unstable substance that is generally avoided in industrial application ) was discovered in 1933 by Eric Fawcett and Reginald Gibson , again by accident , at the ICI works in Northwich , England .
By the end of the 1950s both the Phillips - and Ziegler-type catalysts were being used for HDPE production .
Catalytic systems based on soluble catalysts , the metallocenes , were reported in 1976 by Walter Kaminsky and Hansjörg Sinn .
Pressure sensitive adhesives ( PSA ) are feasible if the surface is flame treated or corona treated .
Carbide can be generally classified by chemical bonding type as follows : ( i ) salt-like , ( ii ) covalent compounds , ( iii ) interstitial compounds , and ( iv ) `` intermediate '' transition metal carbides .
Methanides in general chemical context refers to any compound that hydrolyzes to methane , which might include also salts with hydrogenated anions such as , , and .
Carbide of the actinide elements , which have stoichiometry MC2 and M2C3 , are also described as salt-like derivatives of C22 -- .
The polyatomic ion C34 -- , sometimes called sesquicarbide or allylenide , is found in Li4C3 and Mg2C3 .
Some metals , such as lead and tin , are believed not to form Carbide under any circumstances .
Natalie Wood ( born Natalia Nikolaevna Zacharenko ; ; July 20 , 1938 -- November 29 , 1981 ) was an American film and television actress best known for Natalie Wood screen roles in Miracle on 34th Street , Splendor in the Grass , Rebel Without a Cause , and West Side Story .
Natalie Wood began acting in movies at the age of four and at age eight was given a co-starring role in the classic Christmas film Miracle on 34th Street .
Natalie Wood was married to actor Robert Wagner twice , and to producer Richard Gregson in between the marriages to Wagner .
Natalie Wood described Natalie Wood family by weaving mysterious tales of being either gypsies or landowning aristocrats .
In Natalie Wood youth , Natalie Wood mother dreamed of becoming an actress or ballet dancer .
Wood 's mother became so excited at the possibilities , Natalie Wood overreacted and `` packed the whole family off to Los Angeles to live , '' writes Harris .
Wood 's characters in Rebel Without a Cause , The Searchers ( 1956 , a classic western directed by John Ford ) and Marjorie Morningstar ( 1958 ) began to show Natalie Wood range of acting style widening considerably , observes Tibbetts .
After Wood appeared in the box office flop All the Fine Young Cannibals ( 1960 ) , Natalie Wood career was salvaged by Natalie Wood casting in director Elia Kazan 's Splendor in the Grass ( 1961 ) opposite Warren Beatty , which earned Wood Best Actress Nominations at the Academy Awards , Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards .
Actor Gary Lockwood , who also acted in the film , felt that `` Kazan and Natalie were a terrific marriage , because you had this beautiful girl , and you had somebody that could get things out of Natalie Wood '' .
During this time , Natalie Wood turned down the Faye Dunaway role in Bonnie and Clyde because Natalie Wood did not want to be separated from her analyst .
Natalie Wood was also scheduled to star in a theatrical production of Anastasia with Wendy Hiller and in a film called Country of the Heart , playing a terminally ill writer who has an affair with a teenager , to be played by Timothy Hutton .
They separated in August 1971 after Wood overheard an inappropriate telephone conversation between Natalie Wood secretary and Gregson .
The split also marked a brief estrangement between Wood and Natalie Wood family , when mother Maria and sister Lana told her to reconcile with Gregson for the sake of her newborn child .
The case was reopened in November 2011 after the captain of the boat , Dennis Davern , told NBC News that he lied to police during the initial investigation and that a fight between Wood and Wagner had led to Natalie Wood death .
Scores of representatives of international media , photographers , and members of the public tried to attend Wood 's funeral ; however , all were required to remain outside the cemetery walls .
She and Abelard were buried together there from 1142 ( when Abelard was buried , then Heloise when she died in 1164 ) to 1792 , when their remains were transferred to the church of Nogent-sur-Seine nearby .
What form this first castle took is uncertain because Leeds Castle was rebuilt and transformed in the following centuries .
The King had besieged Leeds after she had refused Edward 's consort Isabella of France admittance in her husband 's absence ; when the latter sought to force an entry , Lady Badlesmere instructed her archers to fire upon Isabella and her party , six of whom were killed .
There is a commemorative sundial at the castle telling the time in Belvoir , Virginia and a corresponding sundial in America .
Fairfax was the great grandson of Thomas Fairfax who led the parliamentarian attack at the nearby Battle of Maidstone in 1648 and whose doublet worn during the battle is on display .
On 17 July 1978 , Leeds Castle was the site of a meeting between the Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohammed Ibrahim Karmel and Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan and Cyrus Vance of the USA in preparation for the Camp David Accords .
It is a Grade I listed building ( first listed in 1952 ) and recognised as an internationally important structure .
The castle was a location for the 1949 film Kind Hearts and Coronets where Leeds Castle stood in for `` Chalfont '' , the ancestral home of the aristocratic d'Ascoyne family .
Leeds Castle is the site of a meeting between the Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohammed Ibrahim Karmel and Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan and Cyrus Vance of the USA in preparation for the Camp David Accords .
Roy Campanella ( November 19 , 1921 -- June 26 , 1993 ) , nicknamed `` Campy '' , was an American baseball player , primarily at the position of catcher , in the Negro leagues and Major League Baseball .
Widely considered to have been one of the greatest catchers in the history of the game , Roy Campanella played for the Brooklyn Dodgers during the 1940s and 1950s , as one of the pioneers in breaking the color barrier in Major League Baseball .
In 1948 , Roy Campanella had three different uniform numbers ( 33 , 39 , and 56 ) before settling on 39 for the rest of Roy Campanella career .
Roy Campanella received the Most Valuable Player ( MVP ) award in the National League three times : in , , and .
Roy Campanella was interviewed by Edward R. Murrow on the CBS program Person to Person on October 2 , 1953 and again on January 2 , 1959 .
episode 171 on September 6 , 1953 and as a guest celebrity on The Name 's the Same ( ABC-TV ) on July 27 , 1954 .
Admiralty law ( also referred to as Admiralty law ) is a distinct body of law which governs maritime questions and offenses .
Admiralty law is a body of both domestic law governing maritime activities , and private international law governing the relationships between private entities which operate vessels on the oceans .
( In contrast , Roman and Byzantine sailors were `` stakeholders in a maritime venture , inasmuch as captain and crew , with few exceptions , were paid proportional divisions of a sea venture 's profit , with shares allotted by rank , only after a voyage 's successful conclusion '' .
In 1787 John Adams , who was then ambassador to France , wrote to James Madison proposing that the U.S. Constitution , then under consideration by the States , be amended to include `` trial by jury in all matters of fact triable by the laws of the land as opposed the law of admiralty and not by the laws of Nations i.e. not by the law of admiralty '' .
The doctrine of maintenance and cure is rooted in the Article VI of the Rolls of Oleron promulgated in about 1160 A.D. The obligation to `` cure '' requires a shipowner to provide medical care , free of charge , to a seaman injured in the service of the ship , until the seaman has reached `` maximum medical cure '' .
In contract salvage the owner of the property and salvor enter into a salvage contract prior to the commencement of salvage operations and the amount that the salvor is paid is determined by the contract .
In both high-order and low-order salvage the amount of the salvage award is based first upon the value of the property saved .
The other factors to be considered are the skills of the salvor , the peril to which the salvaged property was exposed , the value of the property which was risked in effecting the salvage , the amount of time and money expended in the salvage operation etc.
A pure or merit salvage award will seldom exceed 50 percent of the value of the property salved .
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea ( UNCLOS ) defined a treaty regarding protection of the marine environment and various maritime boundaries .
Other countries which do not follow the English statute and case laws , such as Panama , also have established well-known maritime courts which decide international cases on a regular basis .
Canadian jurisdiction in the area of `` Navigation and Shipping '' is vested in the Parliament of Canada by virtue of s. 91 ( 10 ) of the Constitution Act , 1867 .
For example , in a Petitory and Possession Action , a vessel whose title is in dispute , usually between co-owners , will be put in the possession of the court until the title dispute can be resolved .
Admiralty law is governed by a uniform three-year statute of limitations for personal injury and wrongful death cases .
A state court hearing an admiralty or maritime case is required to apply the admiralty and maritime law , even if Admiralty law conflicts with the law of the state , under a doctrine known as the `` reverse-Erie doctrine '' .
Following the takeover of English football club Aston Villa by MBNA Chairman Randy Lerner in August 2006 and as of September 19 , 2006 , General Krulak joined the board of Aston Villa as non-executive director , where Charles C. Krulak quickly earned the approval of the fans by taking the time to post on various Aston Villa messageboards .
As Commandant of the Marine Corps , General Krulak had a habit of always taking a few minutes when visiting Marine units to mingle with the junior ranking enlisted Marines , earning Charles C. Krulak much respect and popularity , but much to the chagrin of Charles C. Krulak bodyguards who were always supposed to be within an arm 's distance of the Commandant .
Charles VI ( 3 December 1368 -- 21 October 1422 ) , called the Beloved and the Mad ( or le Fou ) , was a monarch of the House of Valois who ruled as King of France from 1380 to Charles VI of France death .
During the rule of Charles VI of France uncles , the financial resources of the kingdom , painstakingly built up by Charles VI of France father Charles V , were squandered for the personal profit of the dukes , whose interests were frequently divergent or even opposing .
When John instigated the murder of Louis in November 1407 , the conflict degenerated into a civil war between the Armagnacs ( supporters of the House of Valois ) and the Burgundians .
The king had killed a knight called `` The Bastard of Polignac '' and several other men , the number of which varies among contemporary chronicles .
Pope Pius II , who was born in the middle of the reign of Charles VI , wrote in Charles VI of France Commentaries that there were times when Charles thought that Charles VI of France was made of glass , and this caused Charles VI of France to protect Charles VI of France in various ways so that Charles VI of France would not break .
They were dressed `` in costumes of linen cloth sewn onto their bodies and soaked in resinous wax or pitch to hold a covering of frazzled hemp , so that they appeared shaggy & hairy from head to foot '' .
The first major feud was between Philip the Bold and the Duke of Orléans , both of whom tried to fill the power vacuum left by the king 's condition .
In an effort to find a cure for the king 's illness , stabilize the turbulent political situation , and secure Charles VI of France own future , Salmon supervised the production of two distinct versions of the beautifully illuminated guidebooks to good kingship known as Pierre Salmon 's Dialogues .
In 1420 , King Charles signed the Treaty of Troyes , which recognized Henry of England as Charles VI of France successor , disinherited Charles VI of France son , the Dauphin Charles , claiming Charles VI of France was illegitimate , and betrothed Charles VI of France daughter Catherine of Valois to Henry ( see English Kings of France ) .
At an irreducible minimum Antinous was born to a Greek family in Bithynion-Claudiopolis , in the Roman province of Bithynia in what is now north-west Turkey , and joined the entourage of the emperor Hadrian at a young age , although nothing certain is known of how , when , or where Antinous and Hadrian met .
The death was presented as an accident , `` but it was believed at the time that Antinous had been sacrificed or had sacrificed Antinous , '' and Hadrian `` wept for Antinous like a woman '' .
They include a colossal bust in the Vatican , a bust in the Louvre ( the Antinous Mondragone ) , a bas-relief from the Villa Albani , a statue in the Capitoline museum ( the so-called Capitoline Antinous , now accepted to be a portrayal of Hermes ) , another in Berlin , another in the Lateran and one in the Fitzwilliam Museum ; and many more may be seen in museums across Europe .
The four sides of the obelisk are covered with reliefs and with hieroglyphs which , it can not be doubted , Hadrian composed .
The reference to Hadrian 's wife Sabina being alive shows that it dates from between Antinous ' death in 130 and Sabina 's in 136/7 .
`` Antinous was from Bithynium , a Bithynian city which we also call Claudiopolis , and Antinous had become Hadrian 's boy-favourite ( paidika ) ; and Antinous died in Egypt , either by falling into the Nile , as Hadrian writes lost , or , as the truth is , having been offered in sacrifice ( hierourgethesis ) .
Finally Antinous declared that Antinous had seen a star , which Antinous took to be that of Antinous , and gladly listened to the fictitious tales spun by Antinous companions , to the effect that the star had really come into being from the soul of Antinous and had then appeared for the first time .
Some indeed maintain that this was done because of piety or religion ( pia reliogiosaque ) : the reason being , they say , that Hadrian wanted to extend Antinous own life-span by any means , and when the magicians demanded a volunteer to substitute for Antinous , everyone declined , but Antinous offered Antinous - hence the aforementioned honours done to Antinous .
( Antinoum suum , dum per Nilum navigat , quem muliebriter flevit ) There are various rumours about this person , some asserting that Antinous offered Antinous as a sacrifice on behalf of Hadrian , others - what both Antinous beauty and Hadrian 's excessive pleasure-seeking suggest .
As teacher on this point , Antinous shall produce to you the Sibyl prophetess : - ` Not the oracular lie of Phoebus , Whom silly men called God , and falsely termed Prophet ; But the oracles of the great God , who was not made by men 's hands , Like dumb idols of Sculptured stone ' '' .
Was even Ganymede more grateful and dear than Antinous to ( the supreme god ) who loved Antinous ?
63 - `` In the next place , that Antinous may have the appearance of knowing still more than Antinous has yet mentioned , Antinous says , agreeably to Antinous usual custom , that ` there are others who have wickedly invented some being as their teacher and demon , and who wallow about in a great darkness , more unholy and accursed than that of the companions of the Egyptian Antinous ' .
9 - '' ... and in our own time Antinous , favourite of Hadrian , Emperor of the Romans , whom , although men know Antinous was a mere man , and not a respectable man , but on the contrary , full of licentiousness , yet they worship for fear of Antinous that enjoined it .
22 - `` Hegesippus d. 180 - see above under Eusebius who lived at a period not far from the Apostolic age , writing a History of all ecclesiastical events , from the passion of our Lord down to Antinous own period ... arguing against idols , Antinous wrote ... showing from what error they had first arisen , and this work indicates in what age Antinous flourished .
Antinous says , ` They built monuments and temples to their dead as we see up to the present day , such as the one to Antinous , servant to the Emperor Hadrian , in whose honour also games were celebrated , and a city founded bearing Antinous name , and a temple with priests established ' .
Hadrian `` turned to Greek sculptors to perpetuate the melancholy beauty , diffident manner , and lithe and sensuous frame of Antinous boyfriend Antinous , '' creating in the process what has been described as `` the last independent creation of Greco-Roman art '' .
In Greek mythology , Aeëtes ( also spelled Æëtes ) , ( Georgian and Laz აიეტი , Aieti ) , was a King of Colchis , son of the sun-god Helios and the Oceanid Perseis ( a daughter of Oceanus ) , brother of Pasiphaë and Circe , and father of Medea , Chalciope and Absyrtus .
Two key marketing executives in Compaq 's early years , Jim D'Arezzo and Sparky Sparks , had come from IBM 's PC Group .
The soft-spoken Canion was popular with employees and the culture that he built helped Compaq to attract the best talent .
Instead of headquartering the company in a downtown Houston skyscraper , Canion chose a West Coast-style campus surrounded by forests , where every employee had similar offices and no-one ( not even the CEO ) had a reserved parking spot .
The Compaq Portable was one of the progenitors of today 's laptop ; some called Compaq a `` suitcase computer '' for Compaq size and the look of Compaq case .
Faced with lower-cost rivals such as Dell Computer , AST Research , and Gateway 2000 , Compaq suffered a $ 71 million loss for that quarter , their first loss as Compaq , while the stock had dropped by over two-thirds .
In order to maintain the prices Compaq wanted , Compaq became the first first-tier computer manufacturer to utilize CPUs from AMD and Cyrix .
From third place in 1993 , Compaq had overtaken Apple Computer and even surpassed IBM as the top PC manufacturer in 1994 , as both IBM and Apple were struggling considerably during that time .
However , Pfeiffer saw that the prospects of taking on market leader Hewlett Packard ( who had 60 % market share ) was tough , as that would force Compaq to devote more funds and people to that project than originally budgeted .
Under Mason 's guidance , Compaq utilized Compaq assets more efficiently instead of focusing just on income and profits , which increased Compaq 's cash from $ 700 million to nearly $ 5 billion in one year .
Digital Equipment , which had nearly twice as many employees as Compaq while generating half the revenue , had been a leading company in the previous generation of computing during the 1970s and early 1980s .
Mark Anderson , president of Strategic News Service , a research firm based in Friday Harbor , Wash. was quoted as saying The kind of goals he had sounded good to shareholders -- like being a $ 50 billion company by the year 2000 , or to beat IBM.
should look at everything Eckhard acquired and ask : did the customer benefit from that .
At the same time , Compaq , through Compaq acquisitions of the Digital Equipment Corporation last year and Tandem Computer in 1997 , had tried to become a major systems company , like IBM. and Hewlett-Packard .
While IBM and HP were able generate repeat business from corporate customers to drive sales of their different divisions , Compaq had not yet managed to make Compaq newly acquired sales and services organizations work as seamlessly .
Current and former Compaq employees complained that Gutsch was part of a group of senior executives , dubbed the `` A team '' , who controlled access to Pfeiffer .
There were accusations that Gutsch and others sought to divide top management , although this was regarded by others as sour grapes on the part of executives who were shut out of planning that involved the acquisitions of Tandem and Digital Equipment Corp. Compaq was hit with two class-action lawsuits , as a result of several executives selling $ 50 million USD of stock before a conference call with analysts , where they noted that demand for PCs was slowing down .
David W. Packard in his opposition to the deal `` cited massive layoffs as an example of this departure from HP 's core values ... arguing that although the founders never guaranteed job security , ` Bill and Dave never developed a premeditated business strategy that treated HP employees as expendable ' '' .
The founders ' families who controlled a significant amount of HP shares were further irked because Fiorina had made no attempt to reach out to Compaq and consult about the merger , instead Compaq received the standard roadshow presentation as other investors .
The merger was approved by HP shareholders only after the narrowest of margins , and allegations of vote buying ( primarily involving an alleged last-second back-room deal with Deutsche Bank ) haunted the new company .
Capellas , Compaq 's last Chairman and CEO , became president of the post-merger Hewlett-Packard , under Chairman and CEO Carly Fiorina , to ease the integration of the two companies .
In addition , the merging of the stagnant Compaq computer assembly business with HP 's lucrative printing and imaging division was criticized for obstructing the profitability of the printing/imaging segment.None Overall , Compaq has been suggested that the purchase of Compaq was not a good move for HP , due to the narrow profit margins in the commoditized PC business , especially in light of IBM 's 2005 announcement to sell Compaq PC division to Lenovo .
The Inquirer noted that the continued low return on investment and small margins of HP 's personal computer manufacturing business , now named the Personal Systems Group , `` continues to be what Compaq was in the individual companies , not much more than a job creation scheme for Compaq employees '' .
Most Compaq products have been re-branded with the HP nameplate , such as Compaq market leading ProLiant server line , while the Compaq brand remains on only some consumer-oriented and budget products , notably Compaq Presario PCs .
Instead of headquartering the company in a downtown Houston skyscraper , then-CEO Rod Canion chose a West Coast-style campus surrounded by forests , where every employee had similar offices and no-one ( not even the CEO ) had a reserved parking spot .
By the mid-1990s , Compaq 's price war had enabled Compaq to overtake IBM and Apple , while other IBM PC Compatible manufacturers such as Packard Bell and AST were driven from the market .
Compaq is a result being caught in between the low end and high end of the market .
This musical , building on the innovations of the earlier Show Boat , epitomized the development of the `` book musical '' , a musical play where the songs and dances are fully integrated into a well-made story with serious dramatic goals that are able to evoke genuine emotions other than laughter .
By the early 1940s , Rodgers and Hammerstein were each well known for creating Broadway hits with other collaborators .
Rodgers , with Lorenz Hart , had produced over two dozen musicals since the 1920s , including such popular successes as Babes in Arms ( 1937 ) , The Boys from Syracuse ( 1938 ) and Pal Joey ( 1940 ) .
She contacted Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart , whose first successful collaboration , The Garrick Gaieties , had been produced by the Theatre Guild in 1925 .
During the tryouts of Rodgers and Hart 's Best Foot Forward in 1941 , Hammerstein had assured Rodgers that if Hart was ever unable to work , he would be willing to take his place .
Though Theresa Helburn , codirector of the Theatre Guild , suggested Shirley Temple as Laurey and Groucho Marx as Ali Hakim , Rodgers and Hammerstein , with director Rouben Mammoulian 's support , insisted that performers more dramatically appropriate for the roles be cast .
At the social , during an upbeat square dance ( `` The Farmer and the Cowman '' ) , the rivalry between the local farmers and cowboys over fences and water rights has led to fighting , which Aunt Eller ends by firing a gun to silence everyone .
Afterwards , Ali Hakim decides to leave the territory and bids Ado Annie goodbye after telling her Will is the man she should marry .
A year and a half after the Broadway opening , the `` first of several '' national tours began in New Haven , Connecticut .
The Tony Awards and other awards now given for achievement in musical theatre were not in existence in 1943 , and therefore the original production of Oklahoma !
Oklahoma! starred Howard Keel ( then known as Harold Keel ) and Betty Jane Watson , opening at the Theatre Royal , Drury Lane on April 30 , 1947 to rave press reviews and sellout houses , running for 1,543 performances .
A brand new Dream Ballet was composed for Susan Stroman 's new choreography and the dances to `` Kansas City '' , `` Many a New Day '' and `` The Farmer and the Cowman '' were all radically redesigned .
Oklahoma! was nominated for seven Tony Awards , including Best Revival of a Musical , Best Featured Actress in a Musical and Best Featured Actor in a Musical ( which was awarded to Hensley ) .
The musical was also nominated for nine Drama Desk Awards , with Hensley winning as Outstanding Featured Actor in a Musical and Susan Stroman winning for choreography .
In 1993 , Mary Rodgers ( daughter of Richard Rodgers ) and William Hammerstein ( son of Oscar Hammerstein II ) designated Discoveryland the `` National Home of Rodgers and Hammerstein 's Oklahoma !
's a delight , with one brilliant tippy-tappy-toed song after another and a nugget of darkness lodged in Oklahoma!
Whats On Stage , like most of the papers , gave the show three out of five stars and wrote that this is a `` downbeat vision '' and that `` all told Oklahoma!
For example , Kansas City is performed at the train station , where Aunt Eller and other cowboys meet Will Parker just after he returns from Kansas City .
This marks the first radio broadcast ever of a complete Rodgers and Hammerstein musical , and only the second time that Lyric Opera has presented a Broadway musical on radio ( their first was Show Boat , in 2012 ) .
include the 1979 Broadway revival cast recording , the 1980 London revival cast recording , the 1998 Royal National Theatre revival cast recording , and a soundtrack album of the 1955 film .
There have also been more than 20 studio cast recordings of the show , featuring stars such as Nelson Eddy , John Raitt and Florence Henderson in the leading roles .
The `` Out of My Dreams '' and `` All Er Nuthin ' '' dances are such supreme aesthetic delights ... They are spinetingling , out of this world '' .
... Oklahoma! is the first fully integrated musical play and Oklahoma!
blending of song , character , plot and even dance would serve as the model for Broadway shows for decades '' .
Oklahoma! is a popular choice for school and community productions .
Oklahoma! is the only musical film directed by Fred Zinnemann , and Agnes de Mille choreographed .
Oklahoma! is an Outrage '' and `` Lonely Room '' .
Since that time , famous modern artists , including Pablo Picasso , Salvador Dalí and Francis Bacon , have paid tribute to Velázquez by recreating several of Diego Velázquez most famous works .
Velázquez 's paternal grandparents , Diego da Silva and Maria Rodrigues , had moved to Seville from their native Porto , Portugal decades earlier .
Velázquez was educated by Diego Velázquez parents to fear God and , intended for a learned profession , received good training in languages and philosophy .
Fonseca lodged the young painter in Diego Velázquez own home and sat for a portrait Diego Velázquez , which , when completed , was conveyed to the royal palace .
Recorded descriptions of it say that it depicted Philip III pointing with Diego Velázquez baton to a crowd of men and women being led away by soldiers , while the female personification of Spain sits in calm repose .
The spirit and aim of this work are better understood from its Spanish name , Los Borrachos ( The Drunks ) or Los Bebedores ( the drinkers ) , who are paying mock homage to a half-naked ivy-crowned young man seated on a wine barrel .
The scene is in the riding school of the palace , the king and queen looking on from a balcony , while Olivares attends as master of the horse to the prince .
The sculptor Juan Martínez Montañés modeled a statue of one of Velázquez 's equestrian portraits of the king , painted in 1636 , which was cast in bronze by the Florentine sculptor Pietro Tacca and which now stands in the Plaza de Oriente at Madrid .
Velázquez , in this and in all Diego Velázquez portraits of the king , depicts Philip wearing the golilla , a stiff linen collar projecting at right angles from the neck .
Pablo de Valladolid ( 1635 ) , a buffoon evidently acting a part , and The Buffoon of Coria ( 1639 ) belong to this middle period .
Is this image a mirror , in which case the King and Queen are standing where the spectator stands ?
An apotheosis of the work has been effected since its creation ; Luca Giordano , Diego Velázquez , referred to it as the `` theology of painting '' , and in the eighteenth century the Englishman Thomas Lawrence cited it as the `` philosophy of art '' , so decidedly capable of producing its desired effect .
Diego Velázquez occupation as plebeian and tradesman was justified because , as painter to the king , Diego Velázquez was evidently not involved in the practice of `` selling '' pictures .
Diego Velázquez describes the ways in which the painting problematizes issues of representation through its use of mirrors , screens , and the subsequent oscillations that occur between the image 's interior , surface , and exterior .
Murillo , who toiled for a rich and powerful church , left little means to pay for Diego Velázquez burial , while Velázquez lived and died in the enjoyment of good salaries and pensions .
One of Diego Velázquez final works was Las hilanderas ( The Spinners ) , painted circa 1657 , representing either the interior of the royal tapestry works or a depiction of Ovid 's Fable of Arachne , depending on interpretation .
The tapestry in the background is based on Titian 's The Rape of Europa , or , more probably , the copy that Rubens painted in Madrid .
These include the Infanta Margarita in blue dress and Diego Velázquez only surviving portrait of the sickly Prince Felipe Prospero .
Diego Velázquez was buried in the Fuensalida vault of the church of San Juan Bautista , and within eight days Diego Velázquez wife Juana was buried beside Diego Velázquez .
Diego Velázquez is often cited as a key influence on the art of Édouard Manet , important when considering that Manet is often cited as the bridge between realism and impressionism .
Velázquez was not prolific ; Diego Velázquez is estimated to have produced between only 110 and 120 known canvases .
Diego Velázquez is a wiser and better-educated man than many of the gallants of the court .
The principal rivers are the Sakarya which traverses the province from south to north ; the Rhyndacus , which separated Bithynia from Mysia ; and the Billaeus ( Filiyas ) , which rises in the Aladağ , about 50 miles ( 80 km ) from the sea , and after flowing by modern Bolu ( ancient Bithynion-Claudiopolis ) falls into the Euxine , close to the ruins of the ancient Tium , about 40 miles ( 64 km ) northeast of Heraclea Pontica ( the modern Karadeniz Ereğli ) , having a course of more than 100 miles ( 160 km ) .
The valleys towards the Black Sea abound in fruit trees of all kinds , such as oranges , while the valley of the Sangarius and the plains near Bursa and Iznik ( Nicaea ) are fertile and well cultivated .
Meanwhile , Nicomedes was threatened with an invasion from Antiochus I Soter , king of the Seleucid Empire , who had already made war upon Nicomedes I of Bithynia father , Zipoetes Nicomedes I of Bithynia , and , to strengthen Nicomedes I of Bithynia against this danger , Nicomedes I of Bithynia concluded an alliance with Heraclea Pontica and shortly afterwards with Antigonus II Gonatas .
It was more against Nicomedes I of Bithynia brother than Nicomedes I of Bithynia foreign enemies that Nicomedes now called in the assistance of more powerful auxiliaries and entered into an alliance with the Celts who , under Leonnorius and Lutarius , had arrived on the opposite side of the Bosphorus and were , at this time , engaged in the siege of Byzantium , 277 BC .
In imitation of Nicomedes I of Bithynia father , and so many others of the Greek rulers of Asia , Nicomedes I of Bithynia determined to perpetuate Nicomedes I of Bithynia own name by the foundation of a new capital and the site that Nicomedes I of Bithynia chose , in the immediate neighbourhood of the Megarian colony of Astakos , was so judiciously selected that the city of Nicomedia continued for more than six centuries to be one of the richest and most flourishing in Anatolia .
Hypertension ( HTN ) or high blood pressure , sometimes called arterial hypertension , is a chronic medical condition in which the blood pressure in the arteries is elevated .
aortic aneurysm ) , peripheral arterial disease and is a cause of chronic kidney disease .
A `` Hypertension emergency '' , previously `` malignant hypertension '' , is diagnosed when there is evidence of direct damage to one or more organs as a result of the severely elevated blood pressure .
In contrast there is no evidence that blood pressure needs to be lowered rapidly in Hypertension urgencies where there is no evidence of target organ damage and over aggressive reduction of blood pressure is not without risks .
Usually there are no symptoms in pre-eclampsia and Hypertension is detected by routine screening .
There is evidence that some younger people with prehypertension or ` borderline hypertension ' have high cardiac output , an elevated heart rate and normal peripheral resistance , termed hyperkinetic borderline hypertension .
Hypertension is also associated with decreased peripheral venous compliance which may increase venous return , increase cardiac preload and , ultimately , cause diastolic dysfunction .
With the availability of 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitors and home blood pressure machines , the importance of not wrongly diagnosing those who have white coat hypertension has led to a change in protocols .
In the United Kingdom , current best practice is to follow up a single raised clinic reading with ambulatory measurement , or less ideally with home blood pressure monitoring over the course of 7 days .
Treating moderate to severe hypertension decreases death rates and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in people aged 60 and older .
The recommended BP goal is advised as This was advocated by The Yellow Emperor of China , Cornelius Celsus , Galen , and Hippocrates .
The World Hypertension League ( WHL ) , an umbrella organization of 85 national hypertension societies and leagues , recognized that more than 50 % of the Hypertension population worldwide are unaware of their condition .
In Greek mythology , Nephele ( , from νέφος nephos `` cloud '' ; Latinized to Nubes ) was a cloud nymph who figured prominently in the story of Phrixus and Helle .
Nicomedes IV of Bithynia brother , Socrates Chrestus , assisted by Mithridates VI , defeated Nicomedes IV of Bithynia army in 90 BC , and Nicomedes IV of Bithynia was forced to flee to Italy .
The years that followed were relatively peaceful , though Bithynia came more and more under the control of Rome .
In Greek mythology Ino (Greek mythology) was a mortal queen of Thebes , who after her death and transfiguration was worshiped as a goddess under her epithet Leucothea , the `` white goddess '' .
In her mortal self , Ino (Greek mythology) , the second wife of the Minyan king Athamas , the mother of Learches and Melicertes , daughter of Cadmus and Harmonia and stepmother of Phrixus and Helle , was one of the three sisters of Semele , the mortal woman of the house of Cadmus who gave birth to Dionysus .
Ino (Greek mythology) bribed the men sent to the oracle to lie and tell the others that the oracle required the sacrifice of Phrixus .
Ino (Greek mythology) , daughter of Cadmus and Harmonia , had an end just as tragic as her siblings : Semele died while pregnant with Zeus ' child , killed by her own pride and lack of trust in her lover ; Agave killed her own son , King Pentheus , while struck with Dionysian madness , and Actaeon , son of Autonoe , the third sibling , was torn apart by his own hunting dogs .
Ino (Greek mythology) is a mortal queen of Thebes , who after her death and transfiguration was worshiped as a goddess under her epithet Leucothea , the `` white goddess '' .
Ino (Greek mythology) is a primordial Dionysian woman , nurse to the god and a divine maenad .
Mithridates II of Parthia defeated King Artavasdes I of Armenia and conquered seventy valleys , making the heir to the Armenian throne , prince Tigranes , a political hostage .
Commercial law , also known as Commercial law , is the body of law that applies to the rights , relations , and conduct of persons and businesses engaged in commerce , merchandising , trade , and sales .
Privacy laws , safety laws ( e.g. , the Occupational Safety and Health Act in the United States ) , and food and drug laws are some examples .
The Zuid-Willemsvaart zœytˈʋɪləmsfaːrt ( `` South Willem 's Canal '' ) is a canal in the southern Netherlands , providing a shortcut in river Meuse between the cities of Maastricht and 's - Hertogenbosch .
The 123 km-long canal runs through the Belgian province of Limburg , the Dutch province of Limburg and , for the largest part , through the Dutch province of North Brabant .
Zuid-Willemsvaart is a canal in the southern Netherlands , providing a shortcut in river Meuse between the cities of Maastricht and 's - Hertogenbosch .
In the more familiar variant , Ino , the daughter of Cadmus , sister of Semele , and queen of Athamas , became a goddess after Hera drove her insane as a punishment for caring for the newborn Dionysus .
Said Leucothae ... Then Leucothea had pity , / ` mortal once / Who now is a sea-god ... ' '' ) , and reappears at the beginning of Canto 96 , the first of the Thrones section ( '' Κρήδεμνον ... / κρήδεμνον ... / and the wave concealed her , / dark mass of great water '' .
Rejecting advice from one captain to surround and starve the Prince , a tactic Edward feared , John attacked the strong enemy position .
Charles led a battalion at Poitiers that withdrew early in the struggle ; whether the order came from John ( as Charles V of France later claimed ) , or whether Charles Charles V of France ordered the withdrawal , is unclear .
Edward reached Reims in December and Paris in March , but Charles , trusting on improved municipal defences , forbade Charles V of France soldiers from direct confrontation with the English .
Charles next sent the mercenary companies ( under the leadership of du Guesclin ) to fight in a civil war in Castile between King Peter the Cruel and Charles V of France illegitimate half-brother Henry .
Bertrand du Guesclin , appointed Constable of France in 1370 , beat back a major English offensive in northern France with an unnerving combination of raids , sieges , and pitch battles .
The French cardinals left Rome that summer and declared Urban 's election invalid because of mob intimidation ( a reason that had not been cited at the time of the election ) and elected Cardinal Robert of Geneva as Pope Clement VII that September .
The abscess on the King 's left arm dried up in early September 1380 and Charles prepared to die .
Boxing Helena is a 1993 romantic drama film and the debut feature film by Jennifer Chambers Lynch , daughter of David Lynch .
The exception was critic Gene Siskel who , on the TV show `` Siskel & Ebert '' , admitted `` I went to the theater to see Boxing Helena expecting the worst '' , and called Boxing Helena , `` a brave little movie that explored the provocative issue of how some frustrated men channel their inability to love a woman into cruelty '' .
At the producers ' request , `` The Fountain Song '' replaced Revell 's score in the original release and the DVD .
The first six books covered the history of Assyria and Babylon to the foundation of the Persian empire ; the remaining seventeen went down to the year 398 BC .
Although many ancient authorities valued it highly , and used it to discredit Herodotus , a modern author writes that '' ( Ctesias ) unreliability makes Herodotus seem a model of accuracy '' .
`` Aegea '' is found in modern baby-name books and carried by some contemporary women .
Aegea is the name of the wife of the Roman proconsul of Achaia , whom the apostle Andrew converted and baptised .
The discovery of flerovium , as 287Fl and 286Fl , was confirmed in January 2009 at Berkeley .
Based on these results , the first atom to be detected was tentatively reassigned to or 289mFl , whilst the two subsequent atoms were reassigned to and therefore belong to the unofficial discovery experiment .
In September 2009 , Ununquadium reported that Ununquadium had succeeded in detecting two atoms of flerovium , as and , confirming the decay properties reported at the FLNR , although the measured cross sections were slightly lower ; however the statistics were of lower quality .
In April 2009 , the collaboration of Paul Scherrer Institute ( PSI ) and Flerov Laboratory of Nuclear Reactions ( FLNR ) of JINR carried out another study of the chemistry of flerovium using this reaction .
However , other calculations using relativistic mean field ( RMF ) theory propose Z = 120 , 122 , and 126 as alternative proton magic numbers depending upon the chosen set of parameters .
It should be noted that calculations suggest that the minimum of the shell-correction energy and hence the highest fission barrier exists for 297Uup , caused by pairing effects .
+ → + + 2 Recently Ununquadium has been shown that the multi-nucleon transfer reactions in collisions of actinide nuclei ( such as uranium and curium ) might be used to synthesize the neutron rich superheavy nuclei located at the island of stability .
( , 2n ) → → → + 10 Flerovium is projected to be the second member of the 7p series of chemical elements and the heaviest member of group 14 ( IVA ) in the Periodic Table , below lead .
Tin represents the point at which the stability of the + II and + IV states are similar .
Claims to the discovery of ununtrium have been put forward by both the Dubna and RIKEN teams .
Ununtrium has no stable or naturally-occurring isotopes .
The remaining two isotopes have half-lives between 0.1 and 100 milliseconds : 282Uut has a half-life of 70 milliseconds , and 278Uut , the lightest known ununtrium isotope , is also the shortest-lived known ununtrium isotope , with a half-life of just 0.24 milliseconds .
Cyrus ( Kuruš ) the Younger , son of Darius II of Persia ( Dārayavahuš ) and Parysatis , was a Persian prince and general .
Cyrus the Younger had an elder brother , Arsicas ( whose name changed to Artaxerxes II when Cyrus the Younger ascended the throne ) , and two younger brothers named Ostanes and Oxathres .
In this courtly training Cyrus earned a double reputation ; first Cyrus the Younger was held to be a paragon of modesty among Cyrus the Younger fellows , rendering an obedience to Cyrus the Younger elders which exceeded that of many of Cyrus the Younger own inferiors ; and next Cyrus the Younger bore away the palm for skill in horsemanship and for love of the animal itself .
Plutarch wrote that Cyrus 's mother , Parysatis , favored Cyrus the Younger and wanted Cyrus the Younger on the throne , `` And therefore , Cyrus the Younger father Darius now lying ill , Cyrus the Younger , being sent for from the sea to the court , set out thence with full hopes that by her means Cyrus the Younger was to be declared the successor to the kingdom .
By dexterous management and large promises , Cyrus the Younger overcame the misgivings of the Greek troops over the length and danger of the war ; a Spartan fleet of thirty-five triremes sent to Cilicia opened the passes of the Amanus into Syria and conveyed to Cyrus the Younger a Spartan detachment of 700 men under Cheirisophus .
The king had only been warned at the last moment by Tissaphernes and gathered an army in haste ; Cyrus advanced into Babylonia before Cyrus the Younger met with an enemy .
It is thought that this was why Philip II of Macedon formed Cyrus the Younger strategy of defeating the Persian Empire by means of a compact and well-trained army , a feat accomplished by Cyrus the Younger son , Alexander the Great .
Thus doubtless it was that Cyrus the Younger won the confidence alike of individuals and of the communities entrusted to Cyrus the Younger care ; or in case of hostility , a treaty made with Cyrus was a guarantee sufficient to the combatant that Cyrus the Younger would suffer nothing contrary to its terms .
According to Xenophon , Cyrus the Younger efforts to reward uprightness earned Cyrus the loyalty and love of many followers : Many were the gifts bestowed on Cyrus the Younger , for many and diverse reasons ; no one man , perhaps , ever received more ; no one , certainly , was ever more ready to bestow them upon others , with an eye ever to the taste of each , so as to gratify what Cyrus the Younger saw to be the individual requirement .
Many of these presents were sent to Cyrus the Younger to serve as personal adornments of the body or for battle ; and as touching these Cyrus the Younger would say , `` How am I to deck myself out in all these ?
Indeed , that Cyrus the Younger should triumph over Cyrus the Younger friends in the great matters of welldoing is not surprising , seeing that Cyrus the Younger was much more powerful than they , but that Cyrus the Younger should go beyond them in minute attentions , and in an eager desire to give pleasure , seems to Cyrus the Younger , Cyrus the Younger must confess , more admirable .
Or , perhaps , there was a great dearth of provender , when , through the number of Cyrus the Younger servants and Cyrus the Younger own careful forethought , Cyrus the Younger was enabled to get supplies for Cyrus the Younger ; at such times Cyrus the Younger would send to Cyrus the Younger friends in different parts , bidding them feed their horses on Cyrus the Younger hay , since it would not do for the horses that carried Cyrus the Younger friends to go starving .
Some eunuchs found Cyrus and tried to bring Cyrus the Younger to safety , but a Caunian among the king 's camp followers struck a vein behind Cyrus the Younger knee with a dart , making Cyrus the Younger fall and strike Cyrus the Younger head on a stone , whereupon Cyrus the Younger died .
She likewise got vengeance on Masabates , the king 's eunuch , who had cut off Cyrus ' hand and head , by winning Cyrus the Younger from her son Artaxerxes in a game of dice and having Cyrus the Younger flayed alive .
Altitude sickness -- also known as acute mountain sickness ( AMS ) , altitude illness , hypobaropathy , `` Altitude sickness bends '' , or soroche -- is a pathological effect of high altitude on humans , caused by acute exposure to low partial pressure of oxygen at high altitude .
Acute mountain sickness can progress to high altitude pulmonary edema ( HAPE ) or high altitude cerebral edema ( HACE ) , which are potentially fatal .
A headache occurring at an altitude above 2,400 metres ( 8,000 feet = 76 kPa ) , combined with any one or more of the following symptoms , may indicate Altitude sickness : The most serious symptoms of Altitude sickness arise from edema ( fluid accumulation in the tissues of the body ) .
On the other hand , HAPE may be due to general vasoconstriction in the pulmonary circulation ( normally a response to regional ventilation-perfusion mismatches ) which , with constant or increased cardiac output , also leads to increases in capillary pressures .
Once above approximately 3,000 metres ( 10,000 feet = 70 kPa ) , most climbers and high-altitude trekkers take the `` climb-high , sleep-low '' approach .
This process can not safely be rushed , and this is why climbers need to spend days ( or even weeks at times ) acclimatising before attempting to climb a high peak .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suggest a lower dose for prevention of 125 mg acetazolamide every 12 hours .
At 3,400 meters ( 11,155 feet = 67 kPa ) , raising the oxygen concentration level by 5 percent via an oxygen concentrator and an existing ventilation system provides an effective altitude of 3,000 metres ( 10,000 feet = 70 kPa ) , which is more tolerable for surface-dwellers .
The only reliable treatment and in many cases the only option available is to descend .
Altitude sickness is the air density itself , the number of molecules ( of both oxygen and nitrogen ) per given volume , which drops as altitude increases .
Tissaphernes Tissaphernes was a Persian soldier and statesman , grandson of Hydarnes .
When , therefore , in 408 BC the king decided to support Sparta strenuously , Tissaphernes was removed from the generalship and limited to the satrapy of Caria , whereas Lydia and the conduct of the war were entrusted to Cyrus the Younger .
Peck 's parents divorced by the time Gregory Peck was six years old and Gregory Peck spent the next few years being raised by Gregory Peck maternal grandmother .
Gregory Peck worked at the 1939 World 's Fair and as a tour guide for NBC 's television broadcasting .
This local community theater and landmark ( now in a new home at the University of California , San Diego ) still thrives today .
As the farmer Ezra `` Penny '' Baxter in The Yearling Gregory Peck good-humored warmth and affection toward the characters playing Gregory Peck son and wife confounded critics who had been insisting Gregory Peck was a lifeless performer .
Gregory Peck and Hepburn were close friends until her death ; Gregory Peck even introduced her to her first husband , Mel Ferrer .
Early on , Gregory Peck played the renegade son in the Western Duel in the Sun and , later in Gregory Peck career , the infamous Nazi doctor Josef Mengele in The Boys from Brazil co-starring Laurence Olivier .
Gregory Peck , Mitchum , and Martin Balsam all had roles in the 1991 remake of Cape Fear directed by Martin Scorsese .
Gregory Peck was also a vocal supporter of a worldwide ban of nuclear weapons , and a lifelong advocate of gun control .
In October 1942 Peck married Finnish-born Greta Kukkonen ( 1911 -- 2008 ) , with whom Gregory Peck had three sons , Jonathan ( 1944 -- 75 ) , Stephen ( b. 1946 ) , and Carey Paul ( b. 1949 ) .
Kepler also incorporated religious arguments and reasoning into Johannes Kepler work , motivated by the religious conviction and belief that God had created the world according to an intelligible plan that is accessible through the natural light of reason .
Kepler described Johannes Kepler new astronomy as `` celestial physics '' , as `` an excursion into Aristotle 's Metaphysics '' , and as `` a supplement to Aristotle 's On the Heavens '' , transforming the ancient tradition of physical cosmology by treating astronomy as part of a universal mathematical physics .
Johannes Kepler mother Katharina Guldenmann , an inn-keeper 's daughter , was a healer and herbalist who was later tried for witchcraft .
Born prematurely , Johannes Kepler claimed to have been weak and sickly as a child .
At age nine , Johannes Kepler observed another astronomical event , a lunar eclipse in 1580 , recording that Johannes Kepler remembered being `` called outdoors '' to see it and that the moon `` appeared quite red '' .
In 1589 , after moving through grammar school , Latin school , and seminary at Maulbronn , Johannes Kepler attended Tübinger Stift at the University of Tübingen .
There , Johannes Kepler studied philosophy under Vitus Müller and theology under Jacob Heerbrand ( a student of Philipp Melanchthon at Wittenberg ) , who also taught Michael Maestlin while Johannes Kepler was a student , until Johannes Kepler became Chancellor at Tübingen in 1590 .
In a student disputation , Johannes Kepler defended heliocentrism from both a theoretical and theological perspective , maintaining that the Sun was the principal source of motive power in the universe .
In 1621 Kepler published an expanded second edition of Mysterium , half as long again as the first , detailing in footnotes the corrections and improvements Johannes Kepler had achieved in the 25 years since its first publication .
In December 1595 , Kepler was introduced to Barbara Müller , a 23-year-old widow ( twice over ) with a young daughter , Gemma van Dvijneveldt , and Johannes Kepler began courting her .
In the first years of their marriage , the Keplers had two children ( Heinrich and Susanna ) , both of whom died in infancy .
Political and religious difficulties in Graz dashed Johannes Kepler hopes of returning immediately to Tycho ; in hopes of continuing Johannes Kepler astronomical studies , Kepler sought an appointment as mathematician to Archduke Ferdinand .
In addition to horoscopes for allies and foreign leaders , the emperor sought Johannes Kepler advice in times of political trouble ( though Johannes Kepler recommendations were based more on common sense than the stars ) .
As Johannes Kepler slowly continued analyzing Tycho 's Mars observations -- now available to him in their entirety -- and began the slow process of tabulating the Rudolphine Tables , Kepler also picked up the investigation of the laws of optics from Johannes Kepler lunar essay of 1600 .
It was in this context , as the imperial mathematician and astrologer to the emperor , that Kepler described the new star two years later in Johannes Kepler De Stella Nova .
But Johannes Kepler was not satisfied with the complex and still slightly inaccurate result ; at certain points the model differed from the data by up to eight arcminutes .
Based on measurements of the aphelion and perihelion of the Earth and Mars , Johannes Kepler created a formula in which a planet 's rate of motion is inversely proportional to its distance from the Sun .
In Johannes Kepler first years there , Johannes Kepler enjoyed financial security and religious freedom relative to Johannes Kepler life in Prague -- though Johannes Kepler was excluded from Eucharist by Johannes Kepler Lutheran church over Johannes Kepler theological scruples .
Johannes Kepler eventually returned to Reuttinger ( the fifth match ) who , Johannes Kepler wrote , `` won Johannes Kepler over with love , humble loyalty , economy of household , diligence , and the love she gave the stepchildren '' .
The first three children of this marriage ( Margareta Regina , Katharina , and Sebald ) died in childhood .
The central set of `` harmonies '' was the musica universalis or `` music of the spheres , '' which had been studied by Pythagoras , Ptolemy and many others before Kepler ; in fact , soon after publishing Harmonices Mundi , Kepler was embroiled in a priority dispute with Robert Fludd , who had recently published Johannes Kepler own harmonic theory .
In the final portion of the work ( Book V ) , Johannes Kepler dealt with planetary motions , especially relationships between orbital velocity and orbital distance from the Sun .
This refuted the traditional assumption of scholastic physics that the power of gravitational attraction remained constant with distance whenever it applied between two bodies , such as was assumed by Kepler and also by Galileo in Johannes Kepler mistaken universal law that gravitational fall is uniformly accelerated , and also by Galileo 's student Borrelli in Johannes Kepler 1666 celestial mechanics .
Johannes Kepler died on November 15 , 1630 , and was buried there ; Johannes Kepler burial site was lost after the Swedish army destroyed the churchyard .
Several astronomers tested Johannes Kepler theory , and its various modifications , against astronomical observations .
In the late 17th century , a number of physical astronomy theories drawing from Johannes Kepler work -- notably those of Giovanni Alfonso Borelli and Robert Hooke -- began to incorporate attractive forces ( though not the quasi-spiritual motive species postulated by Johannes Kepler ) and the Cartesian concept of inertia .
One of the most influential is Arthur Koestler 's 1959 The Sleepwalkers , in which Johannes Kepler is unambiguously the hero ( morally and theologically as well as intellectually ) of the revolution .
A well-received , if fanciful , historical novel by John Banville , Johannes Kepler ( 1981 ) , explored many of the themes developed in Koestler 's non-fiction narrative and in the philosophy of science .
In New Zealand 's Fiordland National Park there is also a range of mountains named after Johannes Kepler , called the Johannes Kepler Mountains and a Three Day Walking Trail known as the Johannes Kepler Track through the mountains of the same name .
John Bardeen ( May 23 , 1908 -- January 30 , 1991 ) was an American physicist and electrical engineer , the only person to have won the Nobel Prize in Physics twice : first in 1956 with William Shockley and Walter Brattain for the invention of John Bardeen ; and again in 1972 with Leon N Cooper and John Robert Schrieffer for a fundamental theory of conventional superconductivity known as the BCS theory .
John Bardeen father , Charles Bardeen , was Professor of Anatomy and the first Dean of the Medical School of the University of Wisconsin -- Madison .
Althea Bardeen , before marrying , had taught at the Dewey Laboratory School and run an interior decorating business ; after marriage she was an active figure in the art world .
John Bardeen graduation was postponed due to taking additional courses at another high school and also partly because of John Bardeen mother 's death .
John Bardeen chose engineering because John Bardeen did n't want to be an academic like John Bardeen father and also because it is mathematical .
John Bardeen had taken all the graduate courses in physics and mathematics that had interested John Bardeen , and , in fact , graduated in five years , one more than usual ; this allowed John Bardeen time to also complete a Master 's thesis , supervised by Leo J. Peters .
The pace of the work picked up significantly when they started to surround point contacts between the semiconductor and the conducting wires with electrolytes .
In 1957 , John Bardeen , in collaboration with Leon Cooper and John Bardeen doctoral student John Robert Schrieffer , proposed the standard theory of superconductivity known as the BCS theory ( named for their initials ) .
Independently and at the same time , superconductivity phenomenon was explained by Nikolay Bogoliubov by means of the so-called Bogoliubov transformations .
In many superconductors , the attractive interaction between electrons ( necessary for pairing ) is brought about indirectly by the interaction between the electrons and the vibrating crystal lattice ( the phonons ) .
Lillian Hoddeson , a University of Illinois historian who wrote a book on Bardeen , said that because John Bardeen `` differed radically from the popular stereotype of genius and was uninterested in appearing other than ordinary , the public and the media often overlooked John Bardeen '' .
John Bardeen citation reads : `` Theoretical physicist John Bardeen ( 1908 -- 1991 ) shared the Nobel Prize in Physics twice -- in 1956 , as co-inventor of the transistor and in 1972 , for the explanation of superconductivity .
The word jewellery Jewellery is derived from the word jewel , which was anglicized from the Old French `` jouel '' , and beyond that , to the Latin word `` jocale '' , meaning plaything .
In British English , the spelling can be written as jewelery or jewellery , while the spelling is jewelry in American English .
Most American and European gold jewellery is made of an alloy of gold , the purity of which is stated in karats , indicated by a number followed by the letter K.
These high purity alloys , however , are widely used across Asia , the Middle East and Africa .
However , any inclusion of lead or lead solder will cause an English Assay office ( the building which gives English jewellery Jewellery stamp of approval , the Hallmark ) to destroy the piece .
Beading , or beadwork , is also very popular in many African and indigenous North American cultures .
In Revelation 17 , `` the great whore '' or false religious system , is depicted as being `` decked with gold and precious stones and pearls , having a golden cup in her hand '' .
Also , ancient Turkish designs found in Persian jewellery suggest that trade between the Middle East and Europe was not uncommon .
In Assyria , men and women both wore extensive amounts of jewellery , including amulets , ankle bracelets , heavy multi-strand necklaces , and cylinder seals .
Jewellers created works both for human use and for adorning statues and idols .
One record in the Mari royal archives , for example , gives the composition of various items of jewellery : The Greeks started using gold and gems in jewellery in 1600 BC , although beads shaped as shells and animals were produced widely in earlier times .
The two halves were then joined together , and wax , followed by molten metal , was placed in the centre .
Different techniques , such as using a stamp or engraving , were then used to create motifs on Jewellery .
The Renaissance and exploration both had significant impacts on the development of jewellery in Europe .
A fascinating example of this is the Cheapside Hoard , the stock of a jeweller hidden in London during the Commonwealth period and not found again until 1912 .
Distinguished goldsmiths continued to flourish , however , as wealthier patrons sought to ensure that what Jewellery wore still stood apart from the jewellery of the masses , not only through use of precious metals and stones but also though superior artistic and technical work .
This period also saw the first major collaboration between East and West .
Collaboration in Pforzheim between German and Japanese artists led to Shakudō plaques set into Filigree frames being created by the Stoeffler firm in 1885 ) .
Growing political tensions , the after-effects of the war , and a reaction against the perceived decadence of the turn of the 20th century led to simpler forms , combined with more effective manufacturing for mass production of high-quality jewellery .
Walter Gropius and the German Bauhaus movement , with their philosophy of `` no barriers between artists and craftsmen '' led to some interesting and stylistically simplified forms .
Jade rings from between the 4th and 7th centuries BC show evidence of having been worked with a compound milling machine , hundreds of years before the first mention of such equipment in the west .
The Indian subcontinent ( encompassing India , Pakistan and other countries of South Asia ) has a long jewellery history , which went through various changes through cultural influence and politics for more than 5,000-8 ,000 years .
Other pieces that women frequently wore were thin bands of gold that would be worn on the forehead , earrings , primitive brooches , chokers , and gold rings .
Even though the majority of the Indian population wore jewellery , Maharajas and people related to royalty had a deeper connection with jewellery .
Jewellery making developed in the Americas 5,000 years ago in Central and South America .
Large amounts of gold was easily accessible , and the Aztecs , Mixtecs , Mayans , and numerous Andean cultures , such as the Mochica of Peru , created beautiful pieces of jewellery .
Although gold was the most common and a popular material used in Aztec jewellery , jade , turquoise , and certain feathers were considered more valuable .
Jewellery in the Pacific , with the exception of Australia , is worn to be a symbol of either fertility or power .
Nowadays a wide range of such traditionally inspired items such as bone carved pendants based on traditional fishhooks hei matau and other greenstone jewellery are popular with young New Zealanders of all backgrounds -- for whom Jewellery relate to a generalized sense of New Zealand identity .
Other advances , such as the development of improved pearl harvesting by people such as Mikimoto Kōkichi and the development of improved quality artificial gemstones such as moissanite ( a diamond simulant ) , has placed jewellery within the economic grasp of a much larger segment of the population .
One example of this is bling-bling style jewellery , popularised by hip-hop and rap artists in the early 21st century , i.e. grills , a type of jewellery worn over the teeth .
With more than 17 United States periodicals about beading alone , resources , accessibility , and a low initial cost of entry continues to expand production of hand-made adornments .
Berglin 's strips , usually in four panels , tend to find their humour in a sometimes absurd mix of everyday situations and literary and philosophical references or reflections .
When Jan Berglin was awarded the Alf Henrikson Prize in 2004 , the jury 's motivation spoke of Jan Berglin renditions of the `` existence of the everyday human between ideals and matter '' .
Jim Jarmusch mother , of Irish and German descent , had been a reviewer of film and theatre for the Akron Beacon Journal before marrying Jim Jarmusch father , a businessman of Czech and German descent who worked for the B.F. Goodrich Company .
The first adult film Jim Jarmusch recalls having seen was the 1958 cult classic Thunder Road ( starring Robert Mitchum ) the violence and darkness of which left an impression on the seven-year-old Jarmusch .
After being asked to leave due to neglecting to take any journalism courses -- Jarmusch favored literature and art history -- Jim Jarmusch transferred to Columbia University the following year , with the intention of becoming a poet .
Broke and working as a musician in New York City after returning from Paris in 1976 , Jim Jarmusch applied on a whim to the prestigious Graduate Film School of New York University 's Tisch School of the Arts ( then under the direction of Hollywood director László Benedek ) .
During the late 1970s in New York City , Jarmusch and Jim Jarmusch contemporaries were part of an alternative culture scene centered on the CBGB music club .
Jim Jarmusch next two films each experimented with parallel narratives : Mystery Train ( 1989 ) told three successive stories set on the same night in and around a small Memphis hotel , and Night on Earth ( 1991 ) involved five cab drivers and their passengers on rides in five different world cities , beginning at sundown in Los Angeles and ending at sunrise in Helsinki .
Less bleak and somber than Jim Jarmusch earlier work , Mystery Train nevertheless retained Jim Jarmusch askance conception of America .
Each of the four films had their premiere at the eminent and discerning New York Film Festival , while Mystery Train was in competition at the 1989 Cannes Film Festival .
Produced at a cost of almost $ 9 million with a high-profile cast including John Hurt , Gabriel Byrne and , in Jim Jarmusch final role , Robert Mitchum , the film marked a significant departure for the director from Jim Jarmusch previous features .
Jim Jarmusch was shot in black and white by Robby Müller , and features a score composed and performed by Neil Young , for whom Jim Jarmusch subsequently filmed the tour documentary Year of the Horse , released to tepid reviews in 1997 .
Though ill-received by mainstream American reviewers , Dead Man found much favor internationally and among critics , many of whom lauded it as a visionary masterpiece .
Jim Jarmusch was unique among other things for the number of books important to and discussed by its characters , most of them listed bibliographically as part of the end credits .
Jim Jarmusch followed Coffee and Cigarettes in 2005 with Broken Flowers , which starred Bill Murray as an early retiree who goes in search of the mother of Jim Jarmusch unknown son in attempt to overcome a midlife crisis .
Jim Jarmusch approach to filmmaking -- in the words of The Salt Lake Tribune critic Sean P. Means -- involves `` blending film styles and genres with sharp wit and dark humor '' , and is pervaded by a signature deadpan comedic tone .
Though Jim Jarmusch films are predominantly set in the United States , Jarmusch has advanced the notion that Jim Jarmusch looks at America `` through a foreigner 's eyes '' , with the intention of creating a form of world cinema that synthesizes European and Japanese film with that of Hollywood .
In Jim Jarmusch two later-nineties films , Jim Jarmusch dwelt on different cultures ' experiences of violence , and on textual appropriations between cultures : a wandering Native American 's love of William Blake , a black hit-man 's passionate devotion to the Hagakure .
Hawkins ' song `` Jim Jarmusch Put a Spell on You '' was central to the plot of Stranger than Paradise , while Mystery Train is inspired by and named after a song popularized by Elvis Presley , who is also the subject of a vignette in Coffee and Cigarettes .
Jim Jarmusch longtime girlfriend , filmmaker Sara Driver , worked closely with Jim Jarmusch on Jim Jarmusch early films , but the stress this put on their relationship caused them to break up and resolve thereafter not to work together and have since lived together for many years .
Jim Jarmusch divides Jim Jarmusch time between New York City and the Catskill Mountains of Upstate New York .
Jarmusch stopped drinking coffee in 1986 , the year of the first installment of Coffee and Cigarettes , though Jim Jarmusch remained a smoker .
Jim Jarmusch and Michel Gondry each contributed a remix to a limited edition release of the track `` Blue Orchid '' by The White Stripes in 2005 .
Jim Jarmusch is a founding member of The Sons of Lee Marvin , a humorous `` semi-secret society '' of artists resembling the iconic actor , which issues communiqués and meets on occasion for the ostensible purpose of watching Marvin 's films .
Jim Jarmusch is the 1958 cult classic Thunder Road ( starring Robert Mitchum ) the violence and darkness of which left an impression on the seven-year-old Jarmusch .
Johannes Gutenberg ( ; 1395 -- February 3 , 1468 ) was a German blacksmith , goldsmith , printer , and publisher who introduced printing to Europe .
The use of movable type was a marked improvement on the handwritten manuscript , which was the existing method of book production in Europe , and upon woodblock printing , and revolutionized European book-making .
Johannes Gutenberg major work , the Gutenberg Bible ( also known as the 42-line Bible ) , has been acclaimed for its high aesthetic and technical quality .
Gutenberg was born in the German city of Mainz , the youngest son of the upper-class merchant Friele Gensfleisch zur Laden , and Johannes Gutenberg second wife , Else Wyrich , who was the daughter of a shopkeeper .
This is supported by historian Heinrich Wallau , who adds , `` In the 14th and 15th centuries Johannes Gutenberg descendants claimed a hereditary position as ... the master of the archiepiscopal mint .
Meanwhile , the Fust -- Schöffer shop was the first in Europe to bring out a book with the printer 's name and date , the Mainz Psalter of August 1457 , and while proudly proclaiming the mechanical process by which it had been produced , it made no mention of Johannes Gutenberg .
Gutenberg 's early printing process , and what tests Johannes Gutenberg may have made with movable type , are not known in great detail .
In 2001 , the physicist Blaise Agüera y Arcas and Princeton librarian Paul Needham , used digital scans of a Papal bull in the Scheide Library , Princeton , to carefully compare the same letters ( types ) appearing in different parts of the printed text .
The irregularities in Gutenberg 's type , particularly in simple characters such as the hyphen , suggested that the variations could not have come from either ink smear or from wear and damage on the pieces of metal on the types themselves .
The 19th century printer and typefounder Fournier Le Jeune suggested that Johannes Gutenberg might not have been using type cast with a reusable matrix , but possibly wooden types that were carved individually .
Martin Luther 's 95 Theses were printed and circulated widely ; subsequently Johannes Gutenberg issued broadsheets outlining Johannes Gutenberg anti-indulgences position ( certificates of indulgences were one of the first items Gutenberg had printed ) .
The film The Big Blue , directed by Luc Besson in 1988 , was inspired by Jacques Mayol life story ( and the life story of the Italian diver Enzo Maiorca ) ; Mayol was one of the screenwriters .
Between 1966 and 1983 , Jacques Mayol was eight times no-limits world champion .
During Alboin reign the Lombards ended their migrations by settling in Italy , the northern part of which Alboin conquered between 569 and 572 .
The period of Alboin 's reign as king in Pannonia following the death of Alboin father , Audoin , was one of confrontation and conflict between the Lombards and their main neighbors , the Gepids .
For many centuries following Alboin death Alboin 's heroism and Alboin success in battle were celebrated in Saxon and Bavarian epic poetry .
After the battle , according to a tradition reported by Paul the Deacon , to be granted the right to sit at Alboin father 's table , Alboin had to ask for the hospitality of a foreign king and have Alboin donate Alboin weapons , as was customary .
Faced with the possibility of annihilation , Alboin made an alliance in 566 with the Avars under Bayan Alboin , at the expense of some tough conditions ; the Avars demanded a tenth of the Lombards ' cattle , half of the war booty , and on the war 's conclusion all of the lands held by the Gepids .
The Lombards played on the pre-existing hostility between the Avars and the Byzantines , claiming that the latter were allied with the Gepids .
In particular the so-called Plague of Justinian had ravaged the region and conflict remained endemic , with the Three-Chapter Controversy sparking religious opposition and administration at a standstill after the able governor of the peninsula , Narses , was recalled .
Jörg Jarnut proposes 100,000 -- 150,000 as an approximation ; Wilfried Menghen in Die Langobarden estimates 150,000 to 200,000 ; while Stefano Gasparri cautiously judges the peoples united by Alboin to be somewhere between 100,000 and 300,000 .
By the conditions accepted in the treaty , the Avars were to take possession of Pannonia and the Lombards were promised military support in Italy should the need arise ; also , for a period of 200 years the Lombards were to maintain the right to reclaim their former territories if the plan to conquer Italy failed , thus leaving Alboin with an alternative open .
The innovation adopted was part of Alboin 's borrowing of Roman and Ostrogothic administrative models , as in Late Antiquity the comes civitatis ( city count ) was the main local authority , with full administrative powers in Alboin region .
Alboin moved west in Alboin march , invading the region of Liguria ( north-west Italy ) and reaching its capital Mediolanum ( Milan ) on September 3 , 569 , only to find it already abandoned by the vicarius Italiae ( vicar of Italy ) , the authority entrusted with the administration of the diocese of Annonarian Italy .
Alboin success also meant the collapse of Byzantine defences in the northern part of the Po plain , and large movements of refugees to Byzantine areas .
However , most of the suffragan bishops in the north sought an accommodation with the Lombards , as did in 569 the bishop of Tarvisium Felix when Alboin journeyed to the Piave river to parley with Alboin , obtaining respect for the Church and its goods in return for this act of homage .
Roger Collins describes Marius as an especially reliable source because of Alboin early date and Alboin having lived close to Lombard Italy .
Also contemporary is Gregory of Tours ' account presented in the Historia Francorum , and echoed by the later Fredegar .
In this context , Stefano Gasparri and Wilfried Menghen see in Cunimund 's skull cup the sign of nomadic cultural influences on the Lombards : by drinking from Alboin enemy 's skull Alboin was taking Alboin vital strength .
Goffart does not exclude the possibility that Paul had really seen the skull , but believes that by the 740s the connection between sin and barbarism as exemplified by the skull cup had already been established .
In the vein of Alboin reading of the skull cup , Goffart sees Peredeo as not as a historical figure but as an allegorical character : Alboin notes a similarity between Peredeo 's name and the Latin word peritus , meaning `` lost '' , a representation of those Lombards who entered into the service of the Empire .
To complete the coup d'état and legitimize Alboin claim to the throne , Helmichis married the queen , whose high standing arose not only from being the king 's widow but also from being the most prominent member of the remaining Gepid nation , and as such her support was a guarantee of the Gepids ' loyalty to Helmichis .
As a result , the Lombard garrison in Ticinum proclaimed Duke Cleph the new king , and Helmichis , rather than going to war against overwhelming odds , escaped to Ravenna with Longinus ' assistance , taking with Alboin Alboin wife , Alboin troops , the royal treasure and Alboin 's daughter Albsuinda .
It was only when faced with the danger of annihilation by the Franks in 584 that the dukes elected Alboin in the person of Authari , son of Cleph , who began the definitive consolidation and centralization of the Lombard kingdom while the remaining imperial territories were reorganized under the control of an exarch in Ravenna with the capacity to defend the country without the Emperor 's assistance .
Eight years later , on April 6 , 1503 , after a long military career and at a mature age , Albuquerque was sent on Afonso de Albuquerque first expedition to India along with Afonso de Albuquerque cousin Francisco de Albuquerque .
In Mozambique Channel , they rescued Captain João da Nova , who had had difficulties on Afonso de Albuquerque return from India ; Nova and Afonso de Albuquerque ship , the Frol de la mar , joined the fleet .
Those included the priest João Gomes , João Sanches and Tunisian Sid Mohammed who , having failed to cross the region , headed for Socotra ; from there , Afonso de Albuquerque managed to land them in Filuk .
However , some of Afonso de Albuquerque officers revolted against the heavy work and climate and , claiming that Albuquerque was exceeding Afonso de Albuquerque orders , departed for India .
With the fleet reduced to only two ships and left without supplies , Afonso de Albuquerque was unable to maintain this position for long .
To Jorge de Aguiar was given the region between the Cape of Good Hope and Gujarat .
The new coin , based on the existing local coins , showed a cross on one side and the design of an armillary sphere ( or `` esfera '' ) , King Manuel 's badge , on the other .
Afonso de Albuquerque then set sail from Goa to Malacca against orders and despite the protest of Diogo Mendes , who claimed the command of the expedition .
The city being divided by the Malacca River , the connecting bridge was a strategic point , so at dawn on 25 July the Portuguese landed and fought a tough battle , facing poisoned arrows , taking the bridge in the evening .
Meanwhile , Afonso de Albuquerque arrested and had executed the powerful Javanese merchant Utimuti Raja who , after being appointed to a position in the Portuguese administration as representative of the Javanese population , had maintained contacts with the exiled royal family .
In November , after having secured Malacca and learning the location of the then secret `` spice islands '' , Afonso de Albuquerque sent an expedition of three ships sailing east to find them , led by trusted António de Abreu with the deputy commander Francisco Serrão .
Sultan Abu Lais of Ternate heard of their stranding , and , seeing a chance to ally Afonso de Albuquerque with a powerful foreign nation , brought them to Ternate in 1512 were they were permitted to build a fort on the island , the Forte de São João Baptista de Ternate ( pt ) , built in 1522 .
Nonetheless , Portuguese relations with China became normalized again by the 1540s and in 1557 a permanent Portuguese base at Macau in southern China was established with consent from the Ming court .
To promote settlement , the King of Portugal granted freeman status and exemption from Crown taxes to Portuguese men ( known as casados , or `` married men '' ) who ventured overseas and married local women .
In March 1514 King Manuel I of Portugal had sent to Pope Leo X a huge and exotic embassy led by Tristão da Cunha , who toured the streets of Rome in an extravagant procession of animals from the colonies and wealth from the Indies that struck Europe .
Having returned with rich presents and an ambassador , on the journey back in March 1515 they were met by Albuquerque at Ormuz , where Afonso de Albuquerque went to establish Afonso de Albuquerque rule .
Afonso de Albuquerque wrote a long letter to the king , voicing Afonso de Albuquerque bitterness : `` Afonso de Albuquerque am in ill favor with the king for love of men , and with men for love of the king '' .
On December 16 , 1515 , Afonso de Albuquerque afflicted by illness , and while in sight of Goa , died .
In Portugal , King Manuel 's zigzagging policies continued , still trapped by the constraints of real-time medieval communication between Lisbon and India , was unaware that Afonso de Albuquerque was dead .
Tragically of-course , king Manuel would afterwards learn , that Albuquerque had died many months earlier , and that Afonso de Albuquerque reversed decision had been delivered many months too late .
Through the diplomatic activities of Afonso de Albuquerque , Portugal opened up for the first time in history , the sea between Europe and China .
After sailing many miles across the sea , Jorge Álvares and Afonso de Albuquerque crew dropped anchor in Tamao , an island located at the mouth of the Pearl River .
Portugal still had a foothold in India until the 1960s and in Africa until the 1970s , but it was the enduring trade ties between China and Portugal , initiated by Afonso de Albuquerque many centuries earlier , that would ensure that the first global empire in history would live long enough to be the last remaining empire , ending only when Portugal handed over the government of Macau to China ( 1415-1999 ) .
James Joseph Brown , Jr. ( May 3 , 1933 -- December 25 , 2006 ) was an American recording artist and musician .
During the late 1960s , James Brown moved from a continuum of blues and gospel-based forms and styles to a profoundly `` Africanized '' approach to music making that influenced the development of funk music .
Stories differed into how Brown was eventually paroled , including a story that Bobby Byrd 's family had helped to secure an early release while another stated that Brown got James Brown parole after a car and motor manufacturing company owner , S.C. Lawson , agreed to be a sponsor after Brown had promised to look for a job guaranteed for two years .
Brown and James Brown entire band debuted at the Apollo Theater on April 24 , 1959 , opening for Little Willie John .
and the following year , released two albums with the James Brown Band earning second billing .
In 1964 , seeking bigger commercial success , James Brown and Bobby Byrd formed the production company , Fair Deal , linking the operation to the Mercury imprint , Smash Records .
The Flames ' polished choreography and timing as well as Brown 's energetic dance moves and high-octane vocals upstaged the show from proposed closing act , the Rolling Stones .
The instrumental arrangements on tracks such as `` Give It Up Or Turnit A Loose '' and `` Licking Stick-Licking Stick '' ( both recorded in 1968 ) and `` Funky Drummer '' ( recorded in 1969 ) featured a more developed version of Brown 's mid-1960s style , with the horn section , guitars , bass and drums meshed together in intricate rhythmic patterns based on multiple interlocking riffs .
Brown 's recordings during this period influenced musicians across the industry , most notably groups such as Sly and the Family Stone , Funkadelic , Charles Wright & the Watts 103rd Street Rhythm Band , Booker T. & the M.G. 's as well as vocalists such as Edwin Starr , David Ruffin and Dennis Edwards from The Temptations , and Michael Jackson , who , throughout James Brown career , cited Brown as his ultimate idol .
Trumpeter Lewis Hamlin and saxophonist/keyboardist Alfred `` Pee Wee '' Ellis ( the successor to previous bandleader Nat Jones ) led the band .
This iteration of the J.B. 's dissolved after a March 1971 European tour ( documented on the 1991 archival release Love Power Peace ) due to additional money disputes and Bootsy Collins ' use of LSD ; the Collins brothers would soon become integral members of Parliament-Funkadelic , while a new lineup of the J.B. 's coalesced around Wesley , St. Clair Pinckney , and drummer John Starks .
Many of James Brown sidemen and supporting players , including Fred Wesley & the J.B. 's , Bobby Byrd , Lyn Collins , Vicki Anderson and former rival Hank Ballard , released records on the People label , an imprint founded by Brown that was purchased by Polydor as part of Brown 's new contract .
The decision led to a boycott of James Brown performances and , according to Brown , cost James Brown a big portion of James Brown black audience .
As a result Brown 's record sales and concerts in the United States reached a lull in 1973 as James Brown failed to land a number-one R&B single that year .
Admirers of Brown 's music , including Miles Davis and other jazz musicians , began to cite James Brown as a major influence on their own styles .
Brown 's concert repertoire consisted mostly of James Brown own hits and recent songs , with a few R&B covers mixed in .
Male performers in the Revue were required to wear tuxedoes and cummerbunds long after more casual concert wear became the norm among the younger musical acts .
A trademark feature of Brown 's stage shows , usually during the song `` Please , Please , Please '' , involved Brown dropping to James Brown knees while clutching the microphone stand in James Brown hands , prompting the show 's longtime MC , Danny Ray , to come out , drape a cape over Brown 's shoulders and escort James Brown off the stage after James Brown had worked James Brown to exhaustion during James Brown performance .
Noting of the policy , some of the original members of Brown 's 1970s band , The J.B. 's including Catfish and Bootsy Collins , intentionally got high on LSD during a concert gig in 1971 , causing Brown to fire them after the show because James Brown had suspected them to be on drugs all along .
Adrienne Rodriguez , James Brown third wife , had James Brown arrested four times between 1987 and 1995 on charges of assault .
Although Brown had to cancel upcoming shows in Waterbury , Connecticut and Englewood , New Jersey , Brown was confident that the doctor would discharge James Brown from the hospital in time to perform the New Year 's Eve shows .
For the New Year 's celebrations , James Brown was scheduled to perform at the Count Basie Theatre in New Jersey and at the B. B. King Blues Club in New York , in addition to performing a song live on CNN for the Anderson Cooper New Year 's Eve special .
James Brown signed James Brown last will and testament on August 1 , 2000 , before Strom Thurmond , Jr. , an attorney for Brown 's estate .
The irrevocable trust , separate and apart from Brown 's will , was created on Brown 's behalf in 2000 by James Brown attorney , Albert `` Buddy '' Dallas , who was named as one of three personal representatives of Brown 's estate .
Brown 's will covered the disposition of James Brown personal assets , such as clothing , cars and jewelry , while Brown 's irrevocable trust covered the disposition of music rights , business assets of James Brown Enterprises and Brown 's Beech Island estate in South Carolina .
During the reading of Brown 's will on January 11 , 2007 , Thurmond revealed that Brown 's six adult living children ( Terry Brown , Larry Brown , Daryl Brown , Yamma Brown Lumar , Deanna Brown Thomas and Venisha Brown ) were named in the will .
After the public and private memorial services in late December 2006 , James Brown 's body remained in James Brown casket for a time in a temperature-controlled room at James Brown estate .
The private ceremony for the temporary burial , officiated by Al Sharpton , was attended by Brown 's family and a host of friends .
On November 20 , 1993 , Mayor Charles DeVaney of Augusta held a ceremony to dedicate a section of 9th Street between Broad and Twiggs Streets , renamed `` James Brown Boulevard '' , in the entertainer 's honor .
In 2005 , Charles `` Champ '' Walker and the We Feel Good Committee went before the County commission and received approval to change Augusta 's slogan to `` We Feel Good '' .
On September 12 , 2007 , barely nine months after James Brown 's death , Bobby Byrd , the original leader and founder of The Famous Flames vocal group along with James Brown , died of cancer at 73 years old .
The tribute , organized by Bootsy Collins , featured appearances by Afrika Bambaataa , Chuck D of Public Enemy , The Soul Generals , Buckethead , Freekbass , Triage and many of Brown 's surviving family members .
Jon Postel was the original and long-time .
Within a week , the US NTIA issued A proposal to improve technical management of Internet names and addresses , including changes to authority over the Internet DNS root zone , which ultimately , and controversially , increased U.S. control .
The significance of Jon Postel 's contributions to building the Internet , both technical and personal , were such that a memorial recollection of Jon Postel life forms part of the core technical literature sequence of the Internet in the form of RFC 2468 `` Jon Postel Remember IANA '' , written by Vinton Cerf .
Jon Postel is the original and long-time .
Joyce K. Reynolds is part of the editorial team of the Request For Comments series from 1987 to 2006 , and also .
Julmust ( Swedish jul `` Christmas '' and must `` Sap '' ) is a soft drink that is mainly consumed in Sweden around Christmas .
This was quoted as one of the main reasons that The Coca-Cola Company broke away from their contract with the local brewer Pripps and started Coca-Cola Drycker Sverige AB instead .
Alcaeus of Mytilene older brother , Antimenidas , appears to have served as a mercenary in the army of Nebuchadnezzar II and probably took part in the conquest of Judaea and the destruction of Jerusalem in 587 BC .
Alcaeus was a contemporary and a countryman of Sappho and , since both poets composed for the entertainment of Mytilenean friends , they had many opportunities to associate with each other on a quite regular basis , such as at the Kallisteia , an annual festival celebrating the island 's federation under Mytilene , held at the ` Messon ' ( referred to as temenos in fr.s 129 and 130 ) , where Sappho performed publicly with female choirs .
The Lesbian or Aeolic school of poetry `` reached in the songs of Sappho and Alcaeus that high point of brilliancy to which it never after-wards approached '' and it was assumed by later Greek critics and during the early centuries of the Christian era that the two poets were in fact lovers , a theme which became a favourite subject in art ( as in the urn pictured above ) .
The hymn to Hermes , fr308 ( b ) , was quoted by Hephaestion ( grammarian ) and both Alcaeus of Mytilene and Libanius , the rhetorician , quoted the first two lines of fr .350
This was followed by another edition of the nine poets , collected by Henricus Stephanus and published in Paris in 1560 .
Alcaeus of Mytilene is an older contemporary and an alleged lover of Sappho .
Jules Gabriel Verne ( 8 February 1828 -- 24 March 1905 ) was a French novelist , poet , and playwright best known for Jules Verne adventure novels and Jules Verne profound influence on the literary genre of science fiction .
Jules Verne collaboration with the publisher Pierre-Jules Hetzel led to the creation of the Voyages Extraordinaires , a widely popular series of scrupulously researched adventure novels including Journey to the Center of the Earth , Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea , and Around the World in Eighty Days .
Jules Verne reputation is markedly different in Anglophone regions , where Jules Verne has often been labeled a writer of genre fiction or children 's books , not least because of the highly abridged and altered translations in which Jules Verne novels are often reprinted .
Verne is the second most translated author in the world ( following Agatha Christie ) , and Jules Verne works appear in more translations per year than those of any other writer .
Jules Verne unfinished novel Un prêtre en 1839 ( A Priest in 1839 ) , written in Jules Verne teens and the earliest of Jules Verne prose works to survive , describes the seminary in humorous and disparaging terms .
In February , Louis Philippe Jules Verne had been overthrown and had fled ; on 24 February a provisory government , the French Second Republic , was established , but political demonstrations continued and social tension remained .
Jules Verne wrote to Jules Verne father : `` You should already know , dear papa , what Jules Verne think of the military life , and of these domestic servants in livery .
The two young men revised the play together and Dumas , through arrangements with Jules Verne father , had it produced by the Opéra-National at the Théâtre Historique in Paris , opening on 12 June 1850 .
The latter story , with its combination of adventurous narrative , travel themes , and detailed historical research , would later be described by Verne as `` the first indication of the line of novel that Jules Verne was destined to follow '' .
In April and May 1854 , the magazine published Jules Verne short story `` Master Zacharius , '' an E. T. A. Hoffmann-like fantasy featuring a sharp condemnation of scientific hubris and ambition , followed soon after by `` A Winter Amid the Ice , '' a polar adventure story whose themes closely anticipated many of Jules Verne novels .
Verne , invited to stay with the bride 's family , took to them warmly , making friends with the entire household and finding Jules Verne increasingly attracted to the bride 's sister , Honorine de Viane Morel , a widow of twenty-six with two young children .
However , Jules Verne continued to write and to pursue theatrical productions , and , according to the recollections of a colleague , Jules Verne `` did better in repartee than in business '' .
The journey , Verne 's first trip outside of France , deeply impressed Jules Verne , and upon Jules Verne return to Paris Jules Verne fictionalized Jules Verne recollections to form the backbone of a semi-autobiographical novel , Backwards to Britain .
The relationship between father and son improved as Michel grew older .
Jules Verne son , Michel Verne , oversaw publication of the novels Invasion of the Sea and The Lighthouse at the End of the World after Jules 's death .
Several notable contemporary figures , from the geographer Vivien de Saint-Martin to the critic Jules Claretie , spoke highly of Verne and Jules Verne works in critical and biographical notes .
To Verne , who considered Jules Verne `` a man of letters and an artist , living in the pursuit of the ideal , '' this critical dismissal on the basis of literary ideology could only be seen as the ultimate snub .
Their praise and analyses , emphasizing Jules Verne stylistic innovations and enduring literary themes , proved highly influential for literary studies to come .
Roland Barthes ' seminal essay `` Nautilus et Bateau Ivre '' ( `` The Nautilus and the Drunken Boat '' ) was influential in its exegesis of the Voyages Extraordinares as a purely literary text , while book-length studies by such figures as Marcel Moré and Jean Chesneaux considered Jules Verne from a multitude of thematic vantage points .
However , since the mid-1980s a considerable number of serious English-language studies and translations have appeared , suggesting that a rehabilitation of Jules Verne Anglophone reputation may currently be underway .
Unlike Hetzel , who targeted all ages with Jules Verne publishing strategies for the Voyages Extraordinaires , the British and American publishers of Verne chose to market Jules Verne books almost exclusively to young audiences ; this business move , with its implication that Verne could be treated purely as a children 's author , had a long-lasting effect on Verne 's reputation in English-speaking countries .
The writer Adam Roberts , in an essay for The Guardian titled `` Jules Verne deserves a better translation service , '' commented : `` Jules Verne 'd always liked reading Jules Verne and Jules Verne 've read most of Jules Verne novels ; but it was n't until recently that Jules Verne really understood Jules Verne had n't been reading Jules Verne at all .
The relationship between Verne 's Voyages Extraordinaires and the literary genre science fiction is a complex one .
Verne , like H. G. Wells , is frequently cited as one of the founders of the genre , and Jules Verne profound influence on its development is indisputable ; however , many earlier writers , such as Lucian of Samosata and Mary Shelley , have also been cited as creators of science fiction , an ambiguity necessary given the nebulous definition and history of the genre .
The pioneering submarine designer Simon Lake credited Jules Verne inspiration to Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea , and Jules Verne autobiography begins `` Jules Verne was in a sense the director-general of Jules Verne life '' .
The rocketry innovators Konstantin Tsiolkovsky , Robert Goddard , and Hermann Oberth are all known to have taken their inspiration from Jules Verne From the Earth to the Moon .
Frank Borman , Jim Lovell , and William Anders , the astronauts on the Apollo 8 mission , were similarly inspired , with Borman commenting `` In a very real sense , Jules Verne is one of the pioneers of the space age .
`` sfn DBMJ 1969 p = 37 Polar explorer Richard E. Byrd , after a flight to the South Pole , paid tribute to Verne 's polar novels The Adventures of Captain Hatteras and An Antarctic Mystery by saying `` It was Jules Verne who launched Jules Verne on this trip '' .
Another influential spelologist , Norbert Casteret , traced Jules Verne love of `` caverns , abysses and underground rivers '' to Jules Verne avid youthful reading of Journey to the Center of the Earth ; sfn Time 1938 p = 26 Jules Verne called it `` a marvelous book , which impressed and fascinated Jules Verne more than any other , '' adding `` Jules Verne sometimes re-read it still , each time finding anew the joys and enthusiasm of Jules Verne childhood '' .
In the 1920s , many members of the Surrealist movement named Jules Verne as one of their greatest and most imaginative precursors .
Eugene Ionesco said that all of Jules Verne works , whether directly or indirectly , were written in celebration of Captain Hatteras 's conquest of the North Pole .
Another surrealist , the Greek poet Andreas Embirikos , paid tribute to Verne in Jules Verne nine-volume magnum opus The Great Eastern ( Megas Anatolikos , 1990 ) , which borrows from Verne 's A Floating City and includes Verne Jules Verne among its characters .
Raymond Roussel was profoundly influenced both thematically and stylistically by Verne , whom Jules Verne called a `` man of incommensurate genius '' and an `` incomparable master , '' adding that in many passages Verne `` raised Jules Verne to the highest peaks that can be attained by human language '' .
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry , who discovered the Voyages Extraordinaires as a child and became one of Verne 's enthusiastic adult proponents in the first half of the 20th century , used Verne 's The Black Indies as inspiration for Jules Verne own novel Night Flight .
Amiens is the place where Verne is buried , and the house where Jules Verne lived is now a museum .
The express train running between Nantes and Paris from 1980 to 1989 was named Jules Verne in the writer 's honor .
In 1958 , Rau and Johannes Rau political mentor , Gustav Heinemann , joined the Social Democratic Party of Germany ( SPD ) , where Johannes Rau was active in the Wuppertal chapter .
In 1977 , Rau became Chairman of the North Rhine-Westphalia SPD , and in 1978 Minister President of the state , were Johannes Rau remained until 1998 , with four successful elections for the SPD , which became strongest party in the Landtag each time and gained an absolute majority three times , in 1980 , 1985 , 1990 and finally 1995 .
Rau was known as a practising Christian ( and sometimes titled , `` Brother John '' , to ridicule Johannes Rau intense Christian position ; however , Johannes Rau sometimes used this term Johannes Rau ) .
Goebbels rose to power in 1933 along with Hitler and the Nazi Party and Joseph Goebbels was appointed Propaganda Minister .
Joseph Goebbels had four siblings : Hans ( 1893 -- 1947 ) , Konrad ( 1895 -- 1949 ) , Elisabeth ( 1901 -- 1915 ) , and Maria ( 1910 -- 1949 ) ; the last married the German filmmaker Max W. Kimmich in 1938 .
William L. Shirer , who worked in Berlin as a journalist in the 1930s and was acquainted with Joseph Goebbels , wrote in The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich ( 1960 ) that the deformity was from a childhood attack of osteomyelitis and a failed operation to correct it .
In these works , Joseph Goebbels revealed the psychological damage Joseph Goebbels physical limitations ( having a clubbed foot , and , in a lesser sense being so far from the Aryan ideal , having brown eyes and dark brown hair and standing at only 5 ' 5 ) had caused .
`` The very name of the hero , Michael , to whom Joseph Goebbels gave many autobiographical features , suggests the way Joseph Goebbels self-identification was pointing : a figure of light , radiant , tall , unconquerable , '' and above all '' ` To be a soldier !
Major influences were Friedrich Nietzsche , Oswald Spengler and , most importantly , Houston Stewart Chamberlain , the British-born German writer who was one of the founders of `` scientific '' antisemitism , and whose book The Foundations of the Nineteenth Century ( 1899 ) was one of the standard works of the extreme right in Germany .
This was the source of Joseph Goebbels hatred of the intellect , which was a form of self-hatred , Joseph Goebbels longing to degrade Joseph Goebbels , to submerge Joseph Goebbels in the ranks of the masses , which ran curiously parallel with Joseph Goebbels ambition and Joseph Goebbels tormenting need to distinguish Joseph Goebbels .
Strasser ( `` the most able of the leading Nazis '' of this period ) took the `` socialist '' component of National Socialism far more seriously than did Hitler and other members of the Bavarian leadership of the party .
In 1925 , Goebbels published an open letter to `` Joseph Goebbels friends of the left , '' urging unity between socialists and Nazis against the capitalists .
Joseph Goebbels summoned 60 gauleiters and party leaders , including Goebbels , to a meeting at Bamberg , in Streicher 's Gau of Franconia , where Joseph Goebbels gave a two-hour speech repudiating the political programme of the northern wing of the Party which saw themselves as having more in common with the Communists than the `` bourgeoisie '' .
Joseph Goebbels was horrified by Hitler 's characterization of socialism as `` a Jewish creation '' , and Joseph Goebbels assertion that private property would not be expropriated by a Nazi government .
Joseph Goebbels propaganda techniques were totally cynical : `` That propaganda is good which leads to success , and that is bad which fails to achieve the desired result , '' Joseph Goebbels wrote .
Among Joseph Goebbels favourite targets were socialist leaders such as Hermann Müller and Carl Severing , and the Jewish Berlin Police President , Bernhard Weiß ( 1880 -- 1951 ) , whom Joseph Goebbels subjected to a relentless campaign of Jew-baiting in the hope of provoking a crackdown Joseph Goebbels could then exploit .
Where Hitler 's style was hoarse and passionate , Goebbels ' was cool , sarcastic and often humorous : Joseph Goebbels was a master of biting invective and insinuation , although Joseph Goebbels could whip Joseph Goebbels into a rhetorical frenzy if the occasion demanded .
The Nazi Party 's use of torchlight parades , brass bands , massed choirs , and similar techniques caught the imagination of many voters , particularly young people .
The role of the new ministry , which took over palatial accommodation in the 18th-century Leopold Palace on Wilhelmstrasse , just across from Hitler 's offices in the Reich Chancellery , was to centralize Nazi control of all aspects of German cultural and intellectual life , particularly the press , radio and the visual and performing arts .
In each of these , a Reichskammer ( Reich Chamber ) was established , co-opting leading figures from the field ( usually not known Nazis ) to head each Chamber , and requiring them to supervise the purge of Jews , socialists and liberals , as well as practitioners of `` degenerate '' art forms such as abstract art and atonal music .
As one of the most highly educated members of the Nazi leadership , and the one with the most authentic pretensions to high culture , Goebbels was sensitive to charges that Joseph Goebbels was dragging German culture down to the level of mere propaganda .
Hitler loathed modernism of all kinds , and Joseph Goebbels ( whose own tastes were sympathetic to modernism ) was forced to acquiesce in imposing very traditionalist forms on the artistic and musical worlds .
Pierre Drieu La Rochelle and Robert Brasillach ) founded the `` Europäische Schriftstellervereinigung '' ( European Writers ' League ) , officially in March 1942 .
By mid-1938 Joseph Goebbels was investigating the possibility of requiring all Jews to wear an identifying mark and of confining them to a ghetto , but these were ideas whose time had not yet come .
`` Aim -- drive the Jews out of Berlin , '' Joseph Goebbels wrote in Joseph Goebbels diary in June 1938 , `` and without any sentimentality '' .
In November 1938 , Goebbels got the chance to take decisive action against the Jews for which Joseph Goebbels had been waiting when a Jewish youth , Herschel Grynszpan , shot a German diplomat in Paris , Ernst vom Rath , in revenge for the deportation of Joseph Goebbels family to Poland and the persecution of German Jews generally .
But Joseph Goebbels was not kept directly informed of military and diplomatic developments , relying on second-hand accounts to hear what Hitler was doing .
From 1936 to 1939 , Hitler , while professing Joseph Goebbels desire for peace , led Germany firmly and deliberately towards a confrontation .
Joseph Goebbels saw it as Joseph Goebbels job to make the German people accept this and if possible welcome it .
Joseph Goebbels proposal had a certain logic , as Göring -- despite the failures of the Luftwaffe and Joseph Goebbels own corruption -- was still very popular among the German people , whose morale was waning since Hitler barely appeared in public since the defeat at Stalingrad .
This proposal was increasingly unworkable given Göring 's increasing incapacity and , more importantly , Hitler 's increasing contempt for Joseph Goebbels due to Joseph Goebbels blaming of Göring for Germany 's defeats .
But Hitler , supported by Göring , resisted these demands , which Joseph Goebbels feared would weaken civilian morale and lead to a repetition of the debacle of 1918 , when the German army had been undermined ( in Hitler 's view ) by a collapse of the home front .
Joseph Goebbels travelled to Hitler 's headquarters on the eastern front , meeting both Hitler and Reinhard Heydrich to lobby for Joseph Goebbels demands .
The first cities to be made Jew-free are Berlin , Vienna , and Prague .
A fairly barbaric procedure , not to be described in any greater detail , is being used here , and not much more remains of the Jews themselves .
In July , following the Allied landings in France and the huge Soviet advances in Belarus , Hitler finally agreed to grant both of them increased powers .
This trio -- Goebbels , Himmler and Speer -- became the real centre of German government in the last year of the war , although Bormann used Joseph Goebbels privileged access to Hitler to thwart them when Joseph Goebbels could .
However , the inability of Himmler to persuade Hitler to cease Joseph Goebbels support of Bormann , the defection of SS generals such as Obergruppenführer Ernst Kaltenbrunner , the Chief of the Reichssicherheitshauptamt and Joseph Goebbels powerful subordinate Gruppenführer Heinrich Müller , head of the Gestapo , to Bormann , soon persuaded Goebbels to align Joseph Goebbels with the Secretary to the Führer at the end of 1944 , thus accepting his subordinate position .
Bormann and Joseph Goebbels puppet Lammers , keen to retain their control over the Party and State administrations respectively , placed endless obstacles in Goebbels 's way .
Another problem was that although Speer and Joseph Goebbels were allies , their agendas conflicted : Speer wanted absolute priority in the allocation of labour to be given to arms production , while Joseph Goebbels sought to press every able-bodied male into the army .
By this time , the best Joseph Goebbels could do to reassure the German people that victory was still possible was to make vague promises that `` miracle weapons '' such as the Me 262 jet aircraft , the Type XXI U-boat , and the V-2 rocket could somehow retrieve the military situation .
When other Nazi leaders urged Hitler to leave Berlin and establish a new centre of resistance in the National Redoubt in Bavaria , Joseph Goebbels opposed this , arguing for a last stand in the ruins of the Reich capital .
Even if Joseph Goebbels was willing and able to escape Berlin and reach the north , it was unlikely that Dönitz , whose only concern was to negotiate a settlement with the western Allies that would save Germany from Soviet occupation , would want such a notorious figure as Goebbels heading Joseph Goebbels government .
Later on 1 May , Vice-Admiral Hans-Erich Voss saw Joseph Goebbels for the last time : `` Before the breakout from the bunker began , about ten generals and officers , including myself , went down individually to Joseph Goebbels shelter to say goodbye .
At 8 pm on the evening of 1 May , Goebbels arranged for an SS dentist , Helmut Kunz , to kill Joseph Goebbels six children by injecting them with morphine and then , when they were unconscious , crushing an ampoule of cyanide in each of their mouths .
According to Kunz 's testimony , Joseph Goebbels gave the children morphine injections but it was Magda Goebbels and Stumpfegger , Hitler 's personal doctor , who then administered the cyanide .
Shortly afterward , Goebbels and Joseph Goebbels wife went up to the garden of the Chancellery , where they killed themselves .
`` Vice-Admiral Voss , being asked how Joseph Goebbels identified the people as Goebbels , Joseph Goebbels wife and children , explained that Joseph Goebbels recognized the burnt body of the man as former Reichsminister Goebbels by the following signs : the shape of the head , the line of the mouth , the metal brace that Goebbels had on Joseph Goebbels right leg , Joseph Goebbels gold NSDAP badge and the burnt remains of Joseph Goebbels party uniform '' .
Joseph Goebbels is a German politician and Reich Minister of Propaganda in Nazi Germany from 1933 to 1945 .
Joseph Goebbels is Gauleiter of Berlin , and thus as de facto ruler of the capital .
Alcamenes was a younger contemporary of Phidias and noted for the delicacy and finish of Alcamenes works , among which a Hephaestus and an Aphrodite `` of the Gardens '' were conspicuous .
Pausanias says that Alcamenes was the author of one of the pediments of the temple of Zeus at Olympia , but this seems a chronological and stylistic impossibility .
Coen brothers adopted a son from Paraguay , named Pedro McDormand Coen ( Frances and all her siblings were adopted ) .
When a local furniture tycoon ( Trey Wilson ) appears on television with his newly born quintuplets and jokes that Coen brothers `` are more than we can handle , '' H.I. steals one of the quintuplets to bring up as their own .
Miller 's Crossing , released in 1990 , starred Albert Finney , Gabriel Byrne , and John Turturro .
His plan goes wrong when the kidnappers deviate from the plan and local cop Marge Gunderson ( McDormand ) starts to investigate .
In the Coens ' next film The Big Lebowski , which was released in 1998 , `` The Dude '' ( Jeff Bridges ) , a Los Angeles slacker , is used as an unwitting pawn in a fake kidnapping plot with his bowling buddies ( Steve Buscemi and John Goodman ) .
Based loosely on Homer 's Odyssey ( complete with a cyclops , sirens , et al. ) , the story is set in Mississippi in the 1930s and follows a trio of escaped convicts who , after absconding from a chain gang , journey home in an attempt to recover bank heist loot that the leader has buried .
The film 's bluegrass and old time soundtrack , offbeat humor and noted cinematography , made Coen brothers a critical and commercial hit .
Set in late 1940s California , a laconic chain-smoking barber ( played by Billy Bob Thornton ) discovers a way of blackmailing his wife 's lover and using the proceeds to invest in a dry-cleaning business .
The film 's twists and turns and dark humor were typical of Coen films , but here the slow pace , Coen brothers dead-end roads look meant that the film was more for enthusiasts than casual audiences .
Intolerable Cruelty , released in 2003 and starring George Clooney and Catherine Zeta-Jones , was a throwback to the romantic comedies of the 1940s .
The film won four Academy Awards , including Best Picture , Best Director , and Best Adapted Screenplay , all of which were received by the Coens , as well as Best Supporting Actor received by Bardem .
It was the first time since 1961 ( Jerome Robbins and Robert Wise for West Side Story ) that two directors had received the honor of Best Director at the same time .
Burn After Reading , a comedy starring Brad Pitt and George Clooney was released September 12 , 2008 ; it portrays a collision course between a gym instructor , spies and internet dating .
Coen brothers were due to start production in 2002 , with Jeremy Thomas producing and Brad Pitt in the lead role , but it was canceled when the Coens felt that the budget offered was not enough to successfully produce the film .
and The Ladykillers and was also in charge of archive music for The Big Lebowski .
Jorge Luis Borges ( 24 August 1899 -- 14 June 1986 ) , known as Jorge Luis Borges , was an Argentine short-story writer , essayist , poet and translator born in Buenos Aires .
Jorge Luis Borges most famous books , Ficciones ( 1944 ) and The Aleph ( 1949 ) , are compilations of short stories interconnected by common themes such as dreams , labyrinths , libraries , mirrors , animals , fictional writers , philosophy , religion and God .
In this vein , Jorge Luis Borges biographer Williamson underlines the danger in inferring an autobiographically-inspired basis for the content or tone of certain of Jorge Luis Borges works : books , philosophy and imagination were as much a source of real inspiration to Jorge Luis Borges as Jorge Luis Borges own lived experience , if not more so .
The first lay somewhere between non-fictional essays and short stories , using fictional techniques to tell essentially true stories .
Jorge Luis Borges presence , also in 1967 , on campus at the University of Virginia ( Charlottesville , VA ) influenced a group of students amongst which was Jared Loewenstein who would later become founder and curator of the Jorge Luis Borges Collection at UVA , one of the largest repositories of documents and manuscripts pertaining to the early works of JLB .
Friends believed that Jorge Luis Borges mother , who was 90 and anticipating her own death , wanted to find someone to care for her blind son .
In 1934 , Argentine ultra-nationalists , sympathetic to Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party , asserted Borges was secretly Jewish , and by implication , not a `` true '' Argentine .
Hitler is blindly collaborating with the inevitable armies that will annihilate Jorge Luis Borges , as the metal vultures and the dragon , ( which must have known that they were monsters ) , collaborated , mysteriously , with Hercules '' .
Along with publishing numerous legitimate translations , Jorge Luis Borges also published original works , for example , in the style of Emanuel Swedenborg or One Thousand and One Nights , originally claiming them to be translations of works Jorge Luis Borges had chanced upon .
Jorge Luis Borges then cites both Sartor Resartus and Samuel Butler 's The Fair Haven , remarking , however , that `` those works suffer under the imperfection that they themselves are books , and not a whit less tautological than the others .
Magic realism and exploration of universal truths , they argued , had come at the cost of responsibility and seriousness in the face of society 's problems .
The protagonist of the story `` El muerto '' also lusts after the `` splendid , contemptuous , red-haired woman '' of Azevedo Bandeira and later `` sleeps with the woman with shining hair '' .
Some observers speculated that Borges did not receive the award because of Jorge Luis Borges conservative political views ; or more specifically , because Jorge Luis Borges had accepted an honour from dictator Augusto Pinochet .
Many of Borges 's most popular stories concern the nature of time ( `` The Secret Miracle '' ) , infinity ( `` The Aleph '' ) , mirrors ( `` Tlön , Uqbar , Orbis Tertius '' ) and labyrinths ( `` The Two Kings and the Two Labyrinths '' , `` The House of Asterion '' , `` The Immortal '' , `` The Garden of Forking Paths '' ) .
Jorge Luis Borges stories often have fantastical themes , such as a library containing every possible 410-page text ( `` The Library of Babel '' ) , a man who forgets nothing Jorge Luis Borges experiences ( `` Funes , the Memorious '' ) , an artifact through which the user can see everything in the universe ( `` The Aleph '' ) , and a year of still time given to a man standing before a firing squad ( `` The Secret Miracle '' ) .
Jorge Luis Borges mixed the real and the fantastic : fact with fiction .
In the Book of Imaginary Beings , a thoroughly ( and obscurely ) researched bestiary of mythical creatures , Borges wrote , `` There is a kind of lazy pleasure in useless and out-of-the-way erudition '' .
Borges 's interest in fantasy was shared by Adolfo Bioy Casares , with whom Jorge Luis Borges coauthored several collections of tales between 1942 and 1967 , often under different pseudonyms including H. Bustos Domecq .
The original concept put forward by Borges is in Kafka and Jorge Luis Borges Precursors - after reviewing works that were written before Kafka 's , Borges wrote `` If Jorge Luis Borges am not mistaken , the heterogeneous pieces Jorge Luis Borges have enumerated resemble Kafka ; if Jorge Luis Borges am not mistaken , not all of them resemble each other .
Borges had an English paternal grandmother who , around 1870 , married the criollo Francisco Borges , a man with a military command and a historic role in the civil wars in what is now Argentina and Uruguay .
The varying genealogies of characters , settings , and themes in Jorge Luis Borges stories , such as `` La muerte y la brújula '' , used Argentine models without pandering to Jorge Luis Borges readers or framing Argentine culture as ` exotic ' .
However , while Nabokov and Joyce tended toward progressively larger works as they grew older , Borges remained a miniaturist .
Borges 's work progressed away from what Jorge Luis Borges referred to as `` the baroque '' , while Joyce 's and Nabokov 's moved towards it : Jorge Luis Borges later style is far more transparent and naturalistic than Jorge Luis Borges earlier works .
Critic Paul de Man notes , `` Whatever Borges 's existential anxieties may be , they have little in common with Sartre 's robustly prosaic view of literature , with the earnestness of Camus ' moralism , or with the weighty profundity of German existential thought .
As a political conservative , Borges `` was repulsed by Marxism in theory and practice .
The essay collection Borges y la Matemática ( Borges and Mathematics , 2003 ) by Argentine mathematician and writer Guillermo Martínez , outlines how Borges used concepts from mathematics in Jorge Luis Borges work .
From 1811 until 1816 , with the release of Sense and Sensibility ( 1811 ) , Pride and Prejudice ( 1813 ) , Mansfield Park ( 1814 ) and Emma ( 1816 ) , Jane Austen achieved success as a published writer .
Only some personal and family letters remain ( by one estimate only 160 out of Austen 's 3,000 letters are extant ) , and Jane Austen sister Cassandra ( to whom most of the letters were originally addressed ) burned `` the greater part '' of the ones Jane Austen kept and censored those Jane Austen did not destroy .
Most of the plays were comedies , which suggests one way in which Austen 's comedic and satirical gifts were cultivated .
There is manuscript evidence that Austen continued to work on these pieces as late as the period 1809 -- 1811 , and that Jane Austen niece and nephew , Anna and James Edward Austen , made further additions as late as 1814 .
Honan speculates that at some point not long after writing Love and Freindship in 1789 , Austen decided to `` write for profit , to make stories Jane Austen central effort '' , that is , to become a professional writer .
Tomalin writes : `` Told in letters , it is as neatly plotted as a play , and as cynical in tone as any of the most outrageous of the Restoration dramatists who may have provided some of Jane Austen inspiration ... It stands alone in Austen 's work as a study of an adult woman whose intelligence and force of character are greater than those of anyone Jane Austen encounters '' .
The sentimental relationship between Jane Austen and Tom is at the centre of the 2007 biographical film Becoming Jane Austen .
During the middle of 1798 , after finishing revisions of Elinor and Marianne , Jane Austen began writing a third novel with the working title Susan -- later Northanger Abbey -- a satire on the popular Gothic novel .
While retirement and travel were good for the elder Austens , Jane Austen was shocked to be told Jane Austen was moving from the only home Jane Austen had ever known .
Though Austen 's novels were republished in Britain beginning in the 1830s and remained steady sellers , they were not bestsellers .
In it , he established the groupings of Austen 's `` early '' and `` late '' novels , which are still used by scholars today .
At the time , concern arose over the fact that academics were taking over Jane Austen criticism and it was becoming increasingly esoteric -- a debate that has continued to the beginning of the 21st century .
They agreed that Jane Austen `` combined Henry Fielding 's and Samuel Richardson 's qualities of interiority and irony , realism and satire to form an author superior to both '' .
BBC television dramatisations , which were first produced in the 1970s , attempted to adhere meticulously to Austen 's plots , characterisations , and settings .
Books and scripts that use the general storyline of Austen 's novels but change or otherwise modernise the story also became popular at the end of the 20th century .
The first is that June is named after the Roman goddess Juno , the goddess of marriage and the wife of the supreme deity Jupiter ; the second is that the name comes from the Latin word iuniores , meaning `` younger ones '' , as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding month May ( Maius ) may be named .
July starts on the same day of the week as April in a common year , and January in leap years .
When Amphitryon finally returned to Thebes , Alcmene told him that he had come the night before and slept with her ; he learned from Tiresias what Zeus had done .
Lastly , Alcidamas Mouseion ( a word invoking the Muses ) seems to have contained the narrative of the Contest of Homer and Hesiod , of which the version that has survived is the work of a grammarian in the time of Hadrian , based on Alcidamas .
John Horton Conway ( born 26 December 1937 ) is a British mathematician active in the theory of finite groups , knot theory , number theory , combinatorial game theory and coding theory .
John Horton Conway early experiments in that field were done with pen and paper , long before personal computers existed .
In 2004 , Conway and Simon B. Kochen , another Princeton mathematician , proved the Free will theorem , a startling version of the No Hidden Variables principle of Quantum Mechanics .
Aldine Press was continued after Aldus 's death in 1515 by his wife and her father until his son Paolo ( 1512 -- 1574 ) took over .
One of the more substantial collections of Aldine Press books and Aldine imitations in North America is at the Harold B. Lee library on the campus of Brigham Young University in Provo , Utah .
John Uhler `` Jack '' Lemmon III ( February 8 , 1925 -- June 27 , 2001 ) was an American actor and musician .
Jack Lemmon was the only child of Mildred Burgess LaRue ( née Noel ) and John Uhler Lemmon , Jr. , who was the president of a doughnut company .
Jack Lemmon also became enamored of the piano and learned to play it on Jack Lemmon own .
Wilder felt Lemmon had a natural tendency toward overacting that had to be tempered ; the Wilder biography Nobody 's Perfect quotes the director as saying , `` Lemmon , Jack Lemmon would describe Jack Lemmon as a ham , a fine ham , and with ham you have to trim a little fat '' .
Jack Lemmon also had a longtime working relationship with director Blake Edwards , starring in Jack Lemmon Sister Eileen ( 1955 ) , Days of Wine and Roses ( 1962 ) , The Great Race ( 1965 ) and That 's Life !
Jack Lemmon was awarded Jack Lemmon , becoming the first actor to achieve this rare double ( the only other actors to achieve this are : Robert De Niro , Gene Hackman , Jack Lemmon Nicholson , Kevin Spacey , and Denzel Washington ) .
Days of Wine and Roses ( 1962 ) was one of Jack Lemmon favorite roles .
Three and a half decades later , Jack Lemmon stated on the television program Inside the Actors Studio that Jack Lemmon really was a recovering alcoholic .
Additionally , Jack Lemmon and Matthau had small parts in Oliver Stone 's 1991 film , JFK ( the only film in which both appeared without sharing screen time ) .
After accepting the award , Rhames asked Lemmon to come on stage and , in a move that stunned the audience , gave Jack Lemmon award to Jack Lemmon .
This niceness actually backfired for Reynolds : prior to accepting the lead in W.W. and the Dixie Dancekings ( 1975 ) , directed by John G. Avildsen , Reynolds asked Jack Lemmon , whom Avildsen had directed in Save the Tiger ( 1973 ) for advice about Avildsen as a director .
Conrad is regarded as one of the greatest novelists in English , though Joseph Conrad did not speak the language fluently until Joseph Conrad was in Joseph Conrad twenties ( and always with a marked accent ) .
Writing in the heyday of the British Empire , Conrad drew on Joseph Conrad native Poland 's national experiences and on Joseph Conrad personal experiences in the French and British merchant navies , to create short stories and novels that reflect aspects of a European-dominated world , while plumbing the depths of the human soul .
Conrad , who would actually be known to Joseph Conrad family as `` Konrad '' rather than `` Józef '' , was christened Józef Teodor Konrad after Joseph Conrad maternal grandfather Józef , Joseph Conrad paternal grandfather Teodor , and the heroes ( both named `` Konrad '' ) of two poems by Adam Mickiewicz , Dziady and Konrad Wallenrod .
Half a century later Joseph Conrad explained that `` The Polishness in Joseph Conrad works comes from Mickiewicz and Słowacki .
In 1894 , aged 36 , Conrad reluctantly gave up the sea , partly because of poor health and partly because Joseph Conrad had become so fascinated with writing that Joseph Conrad had decided on a literary career .
The second phase , spanning the war and following the popular success of Chance ( 1913 ) , is marked by the advent of Conrad 's public persona as `` great writer '' .
Despite the opinions even of some who knew Joseph Conrad personally , such as fellow novelist Henry James , Conrad -- even when Joseph Conrad was only writing elegantly crafted letters to Joseph Conrad uncle and acquaintances -- was always at heart a writer who sailed , rather than a sailor who wrote .
An October 1923 visitor to Oswalds , Conrad 's then home -- Cyril Clemens , a cousin of Mark Twain -- quoted Conrad as saying : `` In everything Joseph Conrad have written there is always one invariable intention , and that is to capture the reader 's attention '' .
The 1901 short story `` Amy Foster '' was inspired partly by an anecdote in Ford Madox Ford 's The Cinque Ports ( 1900 ) , wherein a shipwrecked sailor from a German merchant ship , unable to communicate in English , and driven away by the local country people , finally found shelter in a pigsty .
In Nostromo ( completed 1904 ) , the theft of a massive consignment of silver was suggested to Conrad by a story Joseph Conrad had heard in the Gulf of Mexico and later read about in a `` volume picked up outside a second-hand bookshop '' .
Conrad 's story `` The Secret Sharer '' ( completed 1909 ) was inspired by an 1880 incident when Sydney Smith , first mate of the Cutty Sark , had killed a seaman and fled from justice , aided by the ship 's captain .
The near-novella `` Freya of the Seven Isles '' ( completed in March 1911 ) was inspired by a story told to Joseph Conrad by a Malaya old hand and fan of Conrad 's , Captain Carlos M. Marris .
Almayer ( Almayer 's Folly , 1894 ) , abandoned by Joseph Conrad beloved daughter , takes to opium and dies ; Peter Willems ( An Outcast of the Islands , 1895 ) is killed by Joseph Conrad jealous lover Aïssa ; the ineffectual `` Nigger , '' James Wait ( The Nigger of the Narcissus , 1897 ) , dies aboard ship and is buried at sea ; Mr. Kurtz ( Heart of Darkness , 1899 ) expires , uttering the enigmatic words , `` The horror !
; Tuan Jim ( Lord Jim , 1900 ) , having inadvertently precipitated a massacre of Joseph Conrad adoptive community , deliberately walks to Joseph Conrad death at the hands of the community 's leader ; in Conrad 's 1901 short story , `` Amy Foster '' , a Pole transplanted to England , Yanko Goorall ( an English transliteration of the Polish Janko Góral , `` Johnny Highlander '' ) , falls ill and , suffering from a fever , raves in Joseph Conrad native language , frightening Joseph Conrad wife Amy , who flees : next morning Yanko dies of heart failure , and it transpires that Joseph Conrad had simply been asking in Polish for water ; Captain Whalley ( The End of the Tether , 1902 ) , betrayed by failing eyesight and an unscrupulous partner , drowns Joseph Conrad ; Gian ' Battista Fidanza , the eponymous respected Italian-immigrant Nostromo ( Italian : `` Our Man '' ) of the novel Nostromo ( 1904 ) , illicitly obtains a treasure of silver mined in the South American country of `` Costaguana '' and is shot dead due to mistaken identity ; Mr. Verloc , The Secret Agent ( 1906 ) of divided loyalties , attempts a bombing , to be blamed on terrorists , that accidentally kills Joseph Conrad mentally defective brother-in-law Stevie , and Verloc himself is killed by his distraught wife , who drowns herself by jumping overboard from a channel steamer ; in Chance ( 1913 ) , Roderick Anthony , a sailing-ship captain , and benefactor and husband of Flora de Barral , becomes the target of a poisoning attempt by her jealous disgraced financier father who , when detected , swallows the poison himself and dies ( some years later , Captain Anthony drowns at sea ) ; in Victory ( 1915 ) , Lena is shot dead by Jones , who had meant to kill his accomplice Ricardo and later succeeds in doing so , then himself perishes along with another accomplice , after which Lena 's protector Axel Heyst sets fire to his bungalow and dies beside Lena 's body .
Later Razumov , sent as a government spy to Geneva , a center of anti-tsarist intrigue , meets the mother and sister of Haldin , who share Haldin 's liberal convictions .
But in 1922 , near the end of Joseph Conrad life and career , when another Scottish friend , Richard Curle , sent Conrad proofs of two articles Joseph Conrad had written about Conrad , the latter objected to being characterized as a gloomy and tragic writer .
John Galsworthy , who knew Joseph Conrad well , described this as `` a statement which surprised no one who knew the resources of Joseph Conrad memory and the brooding nature of Joseph Conrad creative spirit '' .
Conrad , like other artists , faced constraints arising from the need to propitiate Joseph Conrad audience and confirm its own favorable self-regard .
This may account for his describing the admirable crew of the Judea in Joseph Conrad 1898 story `` Youth '' as `` Liverpool hard cases '' , whereas the crew of the Judeas actual 1882 prototype , the Palestine , had included not a single Liverpudlian , and half the crew had been non-Britons ; and for Conrad 's turning the real-life 1880 criminally negligent British Captain J.L. Clark , of the S.S. Jeddah , in Joseph Conrad 1900 novel Lord Jim , into the captain of the fictitious Patna -- `` a sort of renegade New South Wales German '' so monstrous in physical appearance as to suggest `` a trained baby elephant '' .
The singularity of the universe depicted in Conrad 's novels , especially compared to those of near-contemporaries like Joseph Conrad friend and frequent benefactor John Galsworthy , is such as to open Joseph Conrad to criticism similar to that later applied to Graham Greene .
But where `` Greeneland '' has been characterised as a recurring and recognisable atmosphere independent of setting , Conrad is at pains to create a sense of place , be it aboard ship or in a remote village ; often Joseph Conrad chose to have Joseph Conrad characters play out their destinies in isolated or confined circumstances .
In the view of Evelyn Waugh and Kingsley Amis , it was not until the first volumes of Anthony Powell 's sequence , A Dance to the Music of Time , were published in the 1950s , that an English novelist achieved the same command of atmosphere and precision of language with consistency , a view supported by later critics like A. N. Wilson ; Powell acknowledged Joseph Conrad debt to Conrad .
Conrad 's was a starkly lucid view of the human condition -- a vision similar to that which had been offered in two micro-stories by Joseph Conrad ten-years-older Polish compatriot , Bolesław Prus ( whose work Conrad greatly admired ) : `` Mold of the Earth '' ( 1884 ) and `` Shades '' ( 1885 ) .
More to the point is Conrad 's remark in A Personal Record that English was `` the speech of Joseph Conrad secret choice , of Joseph Conrad future , of long friendships , of the deepest affections , of hours of toil and hours of ease , and of solitary hours , too , of books read , of thoughts pursued , of remembered emotions -- of Joseph Conrad very dreams !
Under the circumstances , English could not but become `` the speech of ... Joseph Conrad future , of long friendships , of ... affection , of hours of toil and ... ease , and ... of books read ... thoughts pursued ... remembered emotions ... '' Had Conrad remained in the Francophone sphere or had Joseph Conrad returned to Poland , the son of the Polish poet , playwright and translator Apollo Korzeniowski -- from childhood exposed to Polish and foreign literature , and ambitious to Joseph Conrad become a writer -- might have ended writing in French or Polish instead of English .
Inescapably , Conrad 's third language , English , remained under the influence of Joseph Conrad first two languages -- Polish and French .
According to Conrad 's close friend and literary assistant Richard Curle , the fact of Conrad writing in English was `` obviously misleading '' because Conrad `` is no more completely English in his art than Joseph Conrad is in Joseph Conrad nationality '' .
Achebe 's essay , a landmark in postcolonial discourse , provoked an ongoing debate , and the questions it raised have been addressed in most subsequent literary criticism of Joseph Conrad .
This , indeed , is a central theme of the novel ; Marlow 's experiences in Africa expose the brutality of colonialism and its rationales .
Jeffrey Meyers notes that Joseph Conrad , like his acquaintance Roger Casement , `` was one of the first men to question the Western notion of progress , a dominant idea in Europe from the Renaissance to the Great War , to attack the hypocritical justification of colonialism and to reveal ... the savage degradation of the white man in Africa '' .
If Conrad or Joseph Conrad novel is racist , Firchow argues , it is only in a weak sense , since Heart of Darkness acknowledges racial distinctions `` but does not suggest an essential superiority '' of any particular group .
The elder , Borys , whom Joseph Conrad named under the misapprehension that the Russian name Boris was a Polish name , proved a disappointment in scholarship and integrity .
Except for several vacations in France and Italy , a 1914 vacation in Joseph Conrad native Poland , and a 1923 visit to the United States , Conrad lived the rest of Joseph Conrad life in England .
On 28 July 1914 , the day war broke out between Austro-Hungary and Serbia , Joseph Conrad and the Retingers arrived in Kraków ( then in the Austro-Hungarian Empire ) , where Joseph Conrad visited childhood haunts .
So many characteristics that had been strange and unfathomable to Joseph Conrad before , took , as it were , their right proportions .
This was accompanied by a faith in the Panslavic ideology -- `` surprising , '' Najder writes , `` in a man who was later to emphasize Joseph Conrad hostility towards Russia , a conviction that ... Poland 's superior civilization and ... historic ... traditions would let her play a leading role ... in the Panslavic community , and doubts about Poland 's chances of becoming a fully sovereign nation-state '' .
The most extensive and ambitious political statement that Conrad ever made was Joseph Conrad 1905 essay , `` Autocracy and War '' , whose starting point was the Russo-Japanese War ( Joseph Conrad finished the article a month before the Battle of Tsushima Strait ) .
Conrad 's `` Autocracy and War '' , Najder points out , showed a historical awareness `` exceptional in the Western European literature of Joseph Conrad time '' -- an awareness that Conrad had drawn from Joseph Conrad membership in a very politically active family of a country that had for over a century been daily reminded of the consequences of neglecting the broad enlightened interests of the national polity .
In San Francisco in 1979 , a small triangular square at Columbus Avenue and Beach Street , near Fisherman 's Wharf , was dedicated as `` Joseph Conrad Square '' after Joseph Conrad .
Joseph Conrad visit to Bangkok also remains in that city 's collective memory , and is recorded in the official history of The Oriental Hotel ( where Joseph Conrad never , in fact , stayed , lodging aboard Joseph Conrad ship , the Otago ) along with that of a less well-behaved guest , Somerset Maugham , who pilloried the hotel in a short story in revenge for attempts to eject Joseph Conrad .
Later literary admirers , notably Graham Greene , followed closely in Joseph Conrad footsteps , sometimes requesting the same room and perpetuating myths that have no basis in fact .
In April 2013 in Russian town of Vologda , where Joseph Conrad and Joseph Conrad family stayed in exile from 1862 to 1863 , a monument to Conrad was unveiled .
Joseph Conrad had a genius for companionship , and Joseph Conrad circle of friends , which Joseph Conrad had begun assembling even prior to Joseph Conrad first publications , included authors and other leading lights in the arts , such as Henry James , Robert Bontine Cunninghame Graham , John Galsworthy , Edward Garnett , Garnett 's wife Constance Garnett ( translator of Russian literature ) , Stephen Crane , Hugh Walpole , George Bernard Shaw , H.G. Wells , Arnold Bennett , Norman Douglas , Jacob Epstein , T.E.
In 1919 and 1922 Conrad 's growing renown and prestige among writers and critics in continental Europe fostered Joseph Conrad hopes for a Nobel Prize in literature .
In April 1924 Joseph Conrad , who possessed a hereditary Polish status of nobility and coat-of-arms ( Nałęcz ) , declined a ( non-hereditary ) British knighthood offered by Labour Party Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald .
Of Conrad 's novels , Lord Jim ( 1900 ) and Nostromo ( 1904 ) are widely read as set texts and for pleasure .
Arguably Joseph Conrad most influential work remains Heart of Darkness ( 1899 ) , to which many have been introduced by Francis Ford Coppola 's film , Apocalypse Now ( 1979 ) , inspired by Conrad 's novel and set during the Vietnam War ; the novel 's depiction of a journey into the darkness of the human psyche resonates with modern readers .
Joseph Conrad is a part of the great cause of these high and just proceedings '' .
John Updike ( 18 March 1932 -- 27 January 2009 ) was an American novelist , poet , short story writer , John Updike , and literary critic .
Both Rabbit Is Rich ( 1981 ) and Rabbit At Rest ( 1990 ) received the Pulitzer Prize .
John Updike was born in Reading , Pennsylvania , the only child of Linda Grace ( née Hoyer ) and Wesley Russell Updike , and grew up in the nearby small town Shillington .
After returning to the United States , Updike and John Updike family moved to New York , where John Updike became a regular contributor to The New Yorker .
The New Yorker , particularly in the 1930s through the 1980s , reached a wide and literate audience with emphasis on writers , artists and thinkers on the east coast , where most of its readers also resided .
As magazines directed their attention to `` targeted '' or special interest audiences of prime interest to advertisers , short fiction began to fall by the wayside .
Updike 's short story output found a welcome home at The New Yorker , which , in turn , introduced John Updike to a wide and alert reading public .
In 1971 , Updike published a sequel to Rabbit , Run called Rabbit Redux , John Updike response to the 1960s ; Rabbit reflected much of Updike 's confusion and ambivalence towards the social and political changes that beset the United States during that time .
Two other novels from this period , A Month of Sundays ( 1975 ) , the first in Updike 's so-called Scarlet Letter trilogy , and Marry Me : A Romance ( 1976 ) , are also meditations on suburban adultery .
More than 800 pages long , with over one hundred stories , it has been called `` a richly episodic and lyrical Bildungsroman ... in which John Updike traces the trajectory from adolescence , college , married life , fatherhood , separation and divorce '' .
She accompanied John Updike to Oxford , England , where John Updike attended art school and where their first child , Elizabeth , was born in 1955 .
John Keenan , who praised the collection Endpoint as `` beautiful and poignant '' , notes that John Updike poetry 's engagement with `` the everyday world in a technically accomplished manner seems to count against him '' .
John Updike was widely praised as America 's `` last true man of letters '' , with an immense and far-reaching influence on many writers .
On the whole , however , John Updike is extremely well regarded as a writer who mastered many genres , wrote with intellectual vigor and a powerful prose style , with `` shrewd insight into the sorrows , frustrations , and banality of American life '' .
Updike 's character Rabbit Angstrom , the protagonist of the series of novels widely considered John Updike magnum opus , has been said to have `` entered the pantheon of signal American literary figures , '' along with Huckleberry Finn , Jay Gatsby , Holden Caulfield and others .
John Updike is a master of effortless motion -- between third and first person , from the metaphorical density of literary prose to the demotic , from specific detail to wide generalisation , from the actual to the numinous , from the scary to the comic .
In a novel like this , John Updike insisted , you have to be generous and allow your characters eloquence , `` and not chop them down to what you think is the right size '' .
The novelist Philip Roth , considered one of Updike 's chief literary rivals , wrote that `` John Updike is our time 's greatest man of letters , as brilliant a literary critic and essayist as John Updike was a novelist and short story writer .
For all John Updike fabled Protestantism , both American Puritan and Lutheran-Barthian , with its cold glitter , its insistence on the aching gap between God and John Updike creatures , Updike seems less like Hawthorne than Balzac , in John Updike unstopping and limitless energy , and John Updike cheerfully professional belief that stories can be continued ; the very form of the Rabbit books -- here extended a further instance -- suggests continuance .
Updike aspires to `` this sense of self-qualification , the kind of timid reverence towards what exists that Cézanne shows when John Updike grapples for the shape and shade of a fruit through a mist of delicate stabs '' .
John Updike appreciation of it is that diverse and that complicated ... John is perhaps the only contemporary writer who John Updike know now who gives John Updike the sense of the fact that life is -- the life that we perform is in an environment that enjoys a grandeur that escapes us .
Robert B. Silvers , editor of The New York Review of Books , called Updike `` one of the most elegant and coolly observant writers of John Updike generation '' .
Updike 's novels often act as dialectical theological debates between the book itself and the reader , the novel endowed with theological beliefs meant to challenge the reader as the plot runs its course .
Rabbit novels Bech books Buchanan books Eastwick books The Scarlet Letter Trilogy '' ' Other novels Short Story Collections Poetry Non-fiction , essays and criticism Books Edited by John Updike See also the External links section below for links to archives of John Updike essays and reviews in The New Yorker and The New York Review of Books .
As the author of twenty-seven books , including sixteen novels , six non-fiction books , and five collections of short stories , John Steinbeck received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1962 .
John 's mother , Olive Hamilton , a former school teacher , shared John Steinbeck passion of reading and writing .
John Steinbeck spent John Steinbeck summers working on nearby ranches and later with migrant workers on Spreckels ranch .
The elder Steinbecks gave John Steinbeck free housing , paper for John Steinbeck manuscripts , and from 1928 , loans that allowed John Steinbeck to give up a warehouse job in San Francisco to focus on writing .
John Steinbeck next works were the California farm-worker depression-era novels In Dubious Battle , Of Mice and Men , and The Grapes of Wrath .
They visited Moscow , Kiev , Tbilisi , Batumi and Stalingrad , some of the first Americans to visit many parts of the USSR since the communist revolution .
John Steinbeck first novel , , published in 1929 , is based on the life and death of privateer Henry Morgan .
After Cup of Gold , between 1931 and 1933 John Steinbeck produced three shorter works .
To a God Unknown follows the life of a homesteader and John Steinbeck family in California , depicting a character with a primal and pagan worship of the land John Steinbeck works .
In presenting the 1962 Nobel Prize to John Steinbeck , the Swedish Academy cited `` spicy and comic tales about a gang of paisanos , asocial individuals who , in their wild revels , are almost caricatures of King Arthur 's Knights of the Round Table .
Of Mice and Men was a drama about the dreams of a pair of migrant agricultural laborers in California .
Later that year it won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and it was adapted as a film directed by John Ford , starring Henry Fonda as Tom Joad ; Fonda was nominated for the best actor Academy Award .
John Steinbeck New Deal political views , negative portrayal of aspects of capitalism , and sympathy for the plight of workers , led to a backlash against the author , especially close to home .
The latest is a rumor started by them that the Okies hate John Steinbeck and have threatened to kill John Steinbeck for lying about them .
The film versions of The Grapes of Wrath and Of Mice and Men ( by two different movie studios ) were in production simultaneously , allowing John Steinbeck to spend a full day on the set of The Grapes of Wrath and the next day on the set of Of Mice and Men .
The declassified documents showed that John Steinbeck was chosen as the best of a bad lot , `` There are n't any obvious candidates for the Nobel prize and the prize committee is in an unenviable situation , '' wrote committee member Henry Olsson .
In the United Kingdom , Of Mice and Men is one of the key texts used by the examining body AQA for its English Literature GCSE .
John Steinbeck childhood friend , Max Wagner , a brother of Jack Wagner and who later became a film actor , served as inspiration for The Red Pony .
Later John Steinbeck used real American historical conditions and events in the first half of the 20th century , which John Steinbeck had experienced first-hand as a reporter .
Dana Gioia ( chair of the National Endowment for the Arts ) told an audience at the center , `` This is really the best modern literary shrine in the country , and John Steinbeck 've seen them all '' .
Thomas Steinbeck , the author 's eldest son , said that J. Edgar Hoover , director of the FBI at the time , could find no basis for prosecuting Steinbeck and therefore used John Steinbeck power to encourage the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to audit Steinbeck 's taxes every single year of John Steinbeck life , just to annoy John Steinbeck .
This first novel tells the story of a fruit pickers ' strike in California which is both aided and damaged by the help of `` the Party , '' generally taken to be the Communist Party , although this is never spelled out in the book .
Joshua Reynolds RA FRS FRSA ( 16 July 1723 -- 23 February 1792 ) was an influential eighteenth-century English painter , specialising in portraits and promoting the `` Grand Style '' in painting which depended on idealization of the imperfect .
James Northcote , Joshua Reynolds pupil , wrote of this arrangement that `` the imitation of particular stuffs is not the work of genius , but is to be acquired easily by practice , and this was what Joshua Reynolds pupils could do by care and time more than he Joshua Reynolds chose to bestow ; but Joshua Reynolds own slight and masterly work was still the best '' .
When in 1783 the landlord of the Turks Head died and the property was sold , The Club moved to Sackville Street .
As a lecturer , Joshua Reynolds Discourses ( delivered between 1769 and 1790 ) are remembered for their sensitivity and perception .
In one lectures Joshua Reynolds was of the opinion that `` invention , strictly speaking , is little more than a new combination of those images which have been previously gathered and deposited in the memory '' .
J. M. W. Turner and James Northcote were fervent acolytes : Turner requested Joshua Reynolds be laid to rest at Reynolds ' side , and Northcote , who spent four years as Reynolds ' pupil , wrote to Joshua Reynolds family `` Joshua Reynolds know Joshua Reynolds thoroughly , and all Joshua Reynolds faults , Joshua Reynolds am sure , and yet almost worship Joshua Reynolds '' .
Reynolds agreed with Burke 's Reflections on the Revolution in France and , writing in early 1791 , expressed Joshua Reynolds belief that the ancien régime of France had fallen due to spending too much time tending , as Joshua Reynolds puts it ; `` to the splendor of the foliage , to the neglect of the stirring the earth about the roots .
In October Joshua Reynolds was too ill to take the president 's chair and in November Fanny Burney recorded that `` Joshua Reynolds had long languished to see that kindly zealous friend , but Joshua Reynolds ill health had intimidated Joshua Reynolds from making the attempt '' : `` Joshua Reynolds had a bandage over one eye , and the other shaded with a green half-bonnet .
On 5 November Reynolds , fearing Joshua Reynolds might not have an opportunity to write a will , wrote a memorandum intended to be Joshua Reynolds last will and testament , with Edmund Burke , Edmond Malone , and Philip Metcalfe named as executors .
Doctors Richard Warren and Sir George Baker believed Reynolds ' illness to be psychological and they bled Joshua Reynolds neck `` with a view of drawing the humour from Joshua Reynolds eyes '' but the effect , in the view of Joshua Reynolds niece , was that it seemed `` as if the ` principle of life ' were gone '' from Reynolds .
In Taste , in grace , in facility , in happy invention , and in the richness and Harmony of colouring , Joshua Reynolds was equal to the great masters of the renowned Ages .
Joseph Schumpeter ( 8 February 1883 -- 8 January 1950 ) was an Austrian-American economist and political scientist .
In 1919 , Joseph Schumpeter served briefly as the Austrian Minister of Finance , with some success , and in 1920 -- 1924 , as president of the private Biedermann Bank .
Joseph Schumpeter prestige among colleagues was likewise not very high because Joseph Schumpeter views seemed outdated and not in tune with the then-fashionable Keynesianism .
According to Christopher Freeman ( 2009 ) , a scholar who devoted much time researching Schumpeter 's work : `` the central point of Joseph Schumpeter whole life work is : that capitalism can only be understood as an evolutionary process of continuous innovation and ` creative destruction ' This is still not taken into the bosom of mainstream theory , although many now pay lip service to it '' .
For instance , Schumpeter thought that the greatest 18th century economist was Turgot , not Adam Smith , as many consider , and Joseph Schumpeter considered Léon Walras to be the `` greatest of all economists '' , beside whom other economists ' theories were `` like inadequate attempts to catch some particular aspects of Walrasian truth '' .
Following neither Walras nor Keynes , Joseph Schumpeter starts in The Theory of Economic Development with a treatise of circular flow which , excluding any innovations and innovative activities , leads to a stationary state .
Joseph Schumpeter saw these cycles varying in time -- although in a tight time frame by coincidence -- and for each to serve a specific purpose .
Joseph Schumpeter argued that capitalism 's collapse from within will come about as democratic majorities vote for restrictions upon entrepreneurship that will burden and destroy the capitalist structure , but also emphasizes non-political , evolutionary processes in society where `` liberal capitalism '' was evolving into democratic socialism because of the growth of workers ' self-management , industrial democracy and regulatory institutions .
The term `` intellectuals '' denotes a class of persons in a position to develop critiques of societal matters for which they are not directly responsible and able to stand up for the interests of strata to which they themselves do not belong .
One of the great advantages of capitalism , Joseph Schumpeter argues , is that as compared with pre-capitalist periods , when education was a privilege of the few , more and more people acquire ( higher ) education .
The availability of fulfilling work is , however , limited , and this lack , coupled with the experience of unemployment , produces discontent .
In the journal Monthly Review John Bellamy Foster wrote of that journal 's founder Paul Sweezy , one of the leading Marxist economists in the United States and a graduate assistant of Schumpeter 's at Harvard , that Schumpeter `` played a formative role in Joseph Schumpeter development as a thinker '' .
The initial Schumpeter column praised Joseph Schumpeter as a `` champion of innovation and entrepreneurship '' whose writing showed an understanding of the benefits and dangers of business that proved to be far ahead of its time .
In 1060 , Ealdred was elected to the archbishopric of York , but had difficulty in obtaining papal approval for Ealdred (bishop) appointment , only managing to do so when Ealdred (bishop) promised not to hold the bishoprics of York and Worcester simultaneously .
William never quite trusted Ealdred or the other English leaders , and Ealdred had to accompany William back to Normandy in 1067 , but Ealdred (bishop) had returned to York by the time of Ealdred (bishop) death in 1069 .
Ealdred supported the churches and monasteries in Ealdred (bishop) diocese with gifts and building projects .
During Ealdred (bishop) tenure as abbot , Ealdred (bishop) supported the abbey with gifts ; the medieval chronicler William of Malmesbury said that they were splendid and many .
Lyfing died on 26 March 1046 , and Ealdred (bishop) became bishop of Worcester shortly after .
However , Ealdred (bishop) did not receive the other two dioceses that Lyfing had held , Crediton and Cornwall ; King Edward the Confessor ( reigned 1043 -- 1066 ) granted these to Leofric , who combined the two sees at Crediton in 1050 .
This was in retaliation for a raid led by the Welsh rulers Gruffydd ap Rhydderch , Rhys ap Rhydderch , and Gruffydd ap Llywelyn .
Ealdred (bishop) expedition was betrayed by some Welsh soldiers who were serving with the English , and Ealdred (bishop) was defeated .
In 1050 , Ealdred (bishop) went to Rome `` on the king 's errand '' , apparently to secure papal approval to move the seat , or centre , of the bishopric of Crediton to Exeter .
That same year , as Ealdred was returning to England Ealdred (bishop) met Sweyn , a son of Godwin , Earl of Wessex , and probably absolved Sweyn for having abducted the abbess of Leominster Abbey in 1046 .
Through Ealdred 's intercession , Sweyn was restored to Ealdred (bishop) earldom , which Ealdred (bishop) had lost after abducting the abbess and murdering Ealdred (bishop) brother Beorn .
In September 1052 , though , Godwin returned from exile and Ealdred (bishop) family was restored to power .
In this mission Ealdred (bishop) was somewhat successful and obtained insight into the working of the German church during a stay of a year with Hermann II , the Archbishop of Cologne .
After Ealdred 's return to England Ealdred (bishop) took charge of the sees of Hereford and Ramsbury .
The authors of the Handbook of British Chronology Third Edition say Ealdred (bishop) was named bishop of Hereford in 1056 , holding the see until Ealdred (bishop) resigned it in 1060 , but other sources say that Ealdred (bishop) merely administered the see while it was vacant , or that Ealdred (bishop) was bishop of Hereford from 1055 to 1060 .
Ealdred was rewarded with the administration of the see of Hereford , which Ealdred (bishop) held until 1061 , and was appointed Archbishop of York .
Ealdred (bishop) travelled through Hungary , and the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle stated that `` Ealdred (bishop) went to Jerusalem in such state as no-one had done before Ealdred (bishop) '' .
Cynesige , Ealdred (bishop) , died on 22 December 1060 , and Ealdred (bishop) was elected Archbishop of York on Christmas Day , 1060 .
William of Malmesbury says that Ealdred , by `` amusing the simplicity of King Edward and alleging the custom of Ealdred (bishop) predecessors , had acquired , more by bribery than by reason , the archbishopric of York while still holding Ealdred (bishop) former see '' .
Yet another chronicler , John of Worcester , mentions nothing of any trouble in Rome , and when discussing the appointment of Wulfstan , says that Wulfstan was elected freely and unanimously by the clergy and people .
For whatever reason , Ealdred (bishop) gave up the see of Worcester in 1062 , when papal legates arrived in England to hold a council and make sure that Ealdred (bishop) relinquished Worcester .
Ealdred (bishop) was succeeded by Wulfstan , chosen by Ealdred (bishop) , but John of Worcester relates that Ealdred (bishop) had a hard time deciding between Wulfstan and Æthelwig .
Stigand 's position as archbishop was canonically suspect , and as earl Harold had not allowed Stigand to consecrate one of the earl 's churches , it is unlikely that Harold would have allowed Stigand to perform the much more important royal coronation .
In all events , Ealdred (bishop) Ealdred (bishop) were close , and Ealdred (bishop) supported Harold 's bid to become king .
The Laudes Regiae , or song commending a ruler , that was performed at Matilda 's coronation may have been composed by Ealdred Ealdred (bishop) for the occasion .
In 1069 , when the northern thegns rebelled against William and attempted to install Edgar the Ætheling as king , Ealdred (bishop) continued to support William .
Ealdred was one of a few native Englishmen who William appears to have trusted , and Ealdred (bishop) death led to fewer attempts to integrate Englishmen into the administration , although such efforts did not entirely stop .
Ealdred (bishop) added a pulpit `` in German style '' of bronze , gold and silver , surmounted by an arch with a rood cross in the same materials ; these were examples of the lavish decorations added to important churches in the years before the conquest .
Ealdred (bishop) was known for Ealdred (bishop) generosity and for Ealdred (bishop) diplomatic and administrative abilities .
After the Conquest , Ealdred (bishop) provided a degree of continuity between the pre - and post-Conquest worlds .
Ealdred (bishop) is Abbot of Tavistock , Bishop of Worcester , and Archbishop of York in Anglo-Saxon England .
Ealdred (bishop) is suffragan , or subordinate bishop .
Ealdred (bishop) is an episcopus , or bishop , and a charter .
Ealdred (bishop) is an episcopus , or bishop .
Ealdred (bishop) is an episcopus , or bishop , .
Ealdred (bishop) is the one bishop that published ecclesiastical legislation during Edward the Confessor 's reign , attempting to discipline and reform the clergy .
John Lee Hooker ( August 22 , 1917 -- June 21 , 2001 ) was a highly influential American blues singer-songwriter and guitarist .
John Lee Hooker best known songs include `` Boogie Chillen ' '' ( 1948 ) , `` John Lee Hooker 'm in the Mood '' ( 1951 ) and `` Boom Boom '' ( 1962 ) , the first two reaching 1 on the Billboard R&B chart .
There is some debate as to the year of Hooker 's birth in Coahoma County , Mississippi , the youngest of the eleven children of William Hooker ( 1871 -- 1923 ) , a sharecropper and Baptist preacher , and Minnie Ramsey ( born 1875 , date of death unknown ) ; according to John Lee Hooker official website , John Lee Hooker was born on August 22 , 1917 .
The next year , John Lee Hooker mother married William Moore , a blues singer who provided Hooker with John Lee Hooker first introduction to the guitar ( and whom John would later credit for John Lee Hooker distinctive playing style ) .
Performing in Detroit clubs , John Lee Hooker popularity grew quickly and , seeking a louder instrument than John Lee Hooker acoustic guitar , John Lee Hooker bought John Lee Hooker first electric guitar .
John Lee Hooker last live in the studio recording on guitar and vocal was of a song John Lee Hooker wrote with Pete Sears called `` Elizebeth '' , featuring members of John Lee Hooker `` Coast to Coast Blues Band '' with Sears on piano .
Satires (Juvenal) are a collection of satirical poems by the Latin author Satires (Juvenal) written in the late 1st and early 2nd centuries AD .
Juvenal is credited with sixteen known poems divided among five books ; all are in the Roman genre of satire , which , at Satires (Juvenal) most basic in the time of the author , comprised a wide-ranging discussion of society and social mores in dactylic hexameter .
These five books were discrete works , and there is no reason to assume that Satires (Juvenal) were published at the same time or that they are identical in theme or in approach .
In a tone and manner ranging from irony to apparent rage , Satires (Juvenal) criticizes the actions and beliefs of many of his contemporaries , providing insight more into value systems and questions of morality and less into the realities of Roman life .
Satires (Juvenal) makes constant allusion to history and myth as a source of object lessons or exemplars of particular vices and virtues .
Coupled with his dense and elliptical Latin , these tangential references indicate that the intended reader of Satires (Juvenal) was highly educated .
At the same time as the Servian text was produced , however , other and lesser scholars also created their editions of Satires (Juvenal) : it is these on which most medieval manuscripts of Satires (Juvenal) are based .
These lines occur in no other manuscript of Satires (Juvenal) , and when discovered were considerably corrupted .
Ever since Housman translated and emended the `` O Passage '' there has been considerable controversy over whether the fragment is in fact a forgery : the field is currently split between those ( Green , Ferguson , Courtney ) who believe it is n't , and those ( Willis , Anderson ) , who believe it is .
This so-called `` Programmatic Satire '' lays out for the reader a catalogue of ills and annoyances that prompt the narrator to write satire .
Rather than being a performance of faux-equality , the patron ( Virro as in 9.35 ) emphasizes the superiority of himself and his peers ( amici ) over his clients ( viles amici ) by offering food and drink of unequal quality to each .
This satire is in the form of a dialogue between the narrator and Naevolus -- the disgruntled client of a pathetic patron .
The subject , in this instance , is the role of food and the cena ( formal dinner ) in Roman society .
Satires (Juvenal) is a collection of satirical poems by the Latin author Juvenal written in the late 1st and early 2nd centuries AD .
This was the period in which Jean Cocteau met the poet Guillaume Apollinaire , artists Pablo Picasso and Amedeo Modigliani , and numerous other writers and artists with whom Jean Cocteau later collaborated .
Jean Cocteau denied being a Surrealist or being in any way attached to the movement .
Jean Cocteau account , which includes vivid pen-and-ink illustrations , alternates between Jean Cocteau moment-to-moment experiences of drug withdrawal and Jean Cocteau current thoughts about people and events in Jean Cocteau world .
The story involves one woman on stage speaking on the telephone with her ( invisible and inaudible ) departing lover , who is leaving her to marry another woman .
Reviews varied at the time and since but whatever the critique , the play represents Cocteau 's state of mind and feelings towards Jean Cocteau actors at the time : on the one hand , Jean Cocteau wanted to spoil and please them ; on the other , Jean Cocteau was fed up by their diva antics and was ready for revenge .
It is also true that none of Jean Cocteau works has inspired as much imitation : Francis Poulenc 's opera La Voix humaine , Gian Carlo Menotti 's `` opera bouffa '' The Telephone and Roberto Rosselini 's film version in Italian with Anna Magnani L'Amore ( 1948 ) .
Jean Cocteau longest-lasting relationships were with the French actors Jean Marais and , whom Jean Cocteau formally adopted .
In 1940 , Le Bel Indifférent , Jean Cocteau play written for and starring Édith Piaf , was enormously successful .
Jean Cocteau is commander of the Legion of Honor , Member of the Mallarmé Academy , German Academy ( Berlin ) , American Academy , Mark Twain ( U.S.A ) Academy , Honorary President of the Cannes film festival , Honorary President of the France-Hungary Association and President of the Jazz Academy and of the Academy of the Disc .
John Donne ( between 24 January and 19 June 1572 -- 31 March 1631 ) was an English poet , satirist , lawyer and a cleric in the Church of England .
These features , along with John Donne frequent dramatic or everyday speech rhythms , John Donne tense syntax and John Donne tough eloquence , were both a reaction against the smoothness of conventional Elizabethan poetry and an adaptation into English of European baroque and mannerist techniques .
Though John Donne practised law and may have worked as an assistant pamphleteer to Thomas Morton , Donne was in a constant state of financial insecurity , with a growing family to provide for .
Some have speculated that Donne 's numerous illnesses , financial strain , and the deaths of John Donne friends all contributed to the development of a more somber and pious tone in John Donne later poems .
The lines of these sermons would come to influence future works of English literature , such as Ernest Hemingway 's For Whom the Bell Tolls , which took its title from a passage in of Devotions upon Emergent Occasions , and Thomas Merton 's No Man is an Island , which took its title from the same source .
One example of this challenge is John Donne Holy Sonnet X , Death Be Not Proud , from which come the famous lines `` Death , be not proud , though some have called thee / Mighty and dreadful , for thou art not so '' .
In Life of Cowley ( from Samuel Johnson 's 1781 work of biography and criticism Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets ) , Johnson refers to the beginning of the seventeenth century in which there `` appeared a race of writers that may be termed the metaphysical poets '' .
Unlike the conceits found in other Elizabethan poetry , most notably Petrarchan conceits , which formed clichéd comparisons between more closely related objects ( such as a rose and love ) , metaphysical conceits go to a greater depth in comparing two completely unlike objects .
Donne is noted for John Donne poetic metre , which was structured with changing and jagged rhythms that closely resemble casual speech ( it was for this that the more classical-minded Ben Jonson commented that `` Donne , for not keeping of accent , deserved hanging '' ) .
The exception to these is John Donne Anniversaries which were published in 1612 and Devotions upon Emergent Occasions published in 1624 .
Sylvia Plath , interviewed on BBC Radio in late 1962 , said the following about a book review of her collection of poems titled The Colossus and Other Poems that had been published in the United Kingdom two years earlier : `` John Donne remember being appalled when someone criticised John Donne for beginning just like John Donne but not quite managing to finish like John Donne , and John Donne felt the weight of English literature on John Donne at that point '' .
The memorial to John Donne , modelled after the engraving pictured above , was one of the few such memorials to survive the Great Fire of London in 1666 and now appears in St Paul 's Cathedral where John Donne is buried .
Jeffry Ross Hyman ( May 19 , 1951 -- April 15 , 2001 ) , best known by Joey Ramone stage name Joey Ramone , was an American musician , vocalist and songwriter , best known as the lead vocalist of the punk rock band the Ramones .
Within eight years of the breakup , the band 's three founding members -- Joey , Johnny , and Dee Dee -- had all died .
Ramone and 49 other recording artists -- including Bruce Springsteen , Keith Richards , Lou Reed and Run DMC -- collaborated on the song `` Sun City '' , in which they pledged they would never perform at the resort .
This was during U2 's Elevation Tour , and from that point on during shows Bono would introduce the song as a tune that was originally about a lovestruck hangover but that Joey turned it into a gospel song .
Hyman 's birthday is celebrated annually by rock 'n' roll nightclubs , hosted in New York City by Joey Ramone brother and , until 2007 , Joey Ramone mother , Charlotte .
In 2001 , the Ramones were named as inductees to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame , prior to the actual ceremony held early the following year .
In a famous passage that is often considered the first specimen of alternative history , Livy speculates on what would have been the outcome of a military showdown between Alexander the Great and the Roman Republic .
John Lennon , ( born John Lennon ; 9 October 1940 -- 8 December 1980 ) was an English musician , singer and songwriter who rose to worldwide fame as a founder member of the Beatles , one of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music .
Born and raised in Liverpool , as a teenager Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze ; John Lennon first band , the Quarrymen , evolved into the Beatles in 1960 .
Controversial through John Lennon political and peace activism , John Lennon moved to New York City in 1971 , where John Lennon criticism of the Vietnam War resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's administration to deport John Lennon , while some of John Lennon songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement .
John Lennon mother bought John Lennon John Lennon first guitar in 1956 , an inexpensive Gallotone Champion acoustic for which she `` lent '' her son five pounds and ten shillings on the condition that the guitar be delivered to her own house , and not Mimi 's , knowing well that her sister was not supportive of her son 's musical aspirations .
In August that year , the Beatles engaged for a 48-night residency in Hamburg , Germany , and desperately in need of a drummer , asked Pete Best to join them .
After the first Hamburg residency , John Lennon accepted another in April 1961 , and a third in April 1962 .
They recorded their debut album , Please Please John Lennon , in under 10 hours on 11 February 1963 , a day when Lennon was suffering the effects of a cold , which is evident in the vocal on the last song to be recorded that day , `` Twist and Shout '' .
1967 saw the release of `` Strawberry Fields Forever '' , hailed by Time magazine for its `` astonishing inventiveness '' , and the group 's landmark album Sgt.
Lennon described the venture as an attempt to achieve , `` artistic freedom within a business structure '' , but John Lennon increased drug experimentation and growing preoccupation with Yoko Ono , and McCartney 's own marriage plans , left Apple in need of professional management .
The supergroup , composed of John Lennon , Eric Clapton , Keith Richards and Mitch Mitchell , also backed a vocal performance by Ono in the film .
John Lennon spoke too of the hostility John Lennon perceived the other members had towards Ono , and of how John Lennon , Harrison , and Starr `` got fed up with being sidemen for Paul ... After Brian Epstein died we collapsed .
The album featured the songs `` Mother '' , in which Lennon confronted John Lennon feelings of childhood rejection , and the Dylanesque `` Working Class Hero '' , a bitter attack against the bourgeois social system which , due to the lyric `` you 're still fucking peasants '' , fell foul of broadcasters .
, was a musical attack on McCartney in response to lyrics from Ram that Lennon felt , and McCartney later confirmed , were directed at John Lennon and Ono .
Containing songs about women 's rights , race relations , Britain 's role in Northern Ireland and John Lennon problems obtaining a green card , the album was poorly received -- unlistenable , according to one critic .
While Lennon was recording Mind Games ( 1973 ) , John Lennon and Ono decided to separate .
The ensuing 18-month period apart , which John Lennon later called John Lennon `` lost weekend '' , was spent in Los Angeles and New York in the company of May Pang .
Settled back in New York , John Lennon recorded the album Walls and Bridges .
The Beatles ' song `` Getting Better '' , John Lennon said , told John Lennon own story , `` John Lennon used to be cruel to John Lennon woman , and physically -- any woman .
The MC , known for John Lennon wordplay and affectionate but cutting remarks , was making a joke , but ten months had passed since Lennon 's marriage , and the honeymoon , deferred , was still two months in the future .
Julian recalls that John Lennon and John Lennon father `` got on a great deal better '' during the time John Lennon spent in New York : `` We had a lot of fun , laughed a lot and had a great time in general '' .
John Lennon , hitherto inhibited by Ono in this regard , began to reestablish contact with other relatives and friends .
By glaring omission ... John Lennon influence on John Lennon life is absolutely zilch ... John Lennon remembers every two-bit sax player or guitarist John Lennon met in subsequent years .
Later that year , Lennon and Ono supported efforts by the family of James Hanratty , hanged for murder in 1962 , to prove John Lennon innocence .
Lennon and Ono , backed by David Peel and Rubin , performed an acoustic set of four songs from their forthcoming Some Time in New York City album including `` John Sinclair '' , whose lyrics called for John Lennon release .
Following the Bloody Sunday incident in Northern Ireland in 1972 , in which 14 unarmed civil rights protesters were shot dead by the British Army , Lennon said that given the choice between the army and the IRA ( who were not involved in the incident ) John Lennon would side with the latter .
According to FBI surveillance reports ( and confirmed by Tariq Ali in 2006 ) John Lennon was sympathetic to the International Marxist Group , a Trotskyist group formed in Britain in 1968 .
Following the impact of `` Give Peace a Chance '' and `` Happy Xmas ( War Is Over ) '' , both strongly associated with the anti -- Vietnam War movement , the Nixon administration , hearing rumours of Lennon 's involvement in a concert to be held in San Diego at the same time as the Republican National Convention , tried to have John Lennon deported .
The country 's got plenty of room and space .
In response , John Lennon and Ono held a press conference on 1 April 1973 at the New York City Bar Association , where they announced the formation of the state of Nutopia ; a place with `` no land , no boundaries , no passports , only people '' .
Above was a flying pancake , and below , `` a blind man wearing glasses leading along a blind dog -- also wearing glasses '' .
Harry writes that In John Lennon Own Write ( 1964 ) was published after `` Some journalist who was hanging around The Beatles came to John Lennon and John Lennon ended up showing John Lennon the stuff .
Lennon was not only surprised by the positive reception , but that the book was reviewed at all , and suggested that readers `` took the book more seriously than John Lennon did myself .
In combination with A Spaniard in the Works ( 1965 ) , In John Lennon Own Write formed the basis of the stage play The John Lennon Play : In John Lennon Own Write , co-adapted by Victor Spinetti and Adrienne Kennedy .
After negotiations between John Lennon , Spinetti and the artistic director of the National Theatre , Sir Laurence Olivier , the play opened at the Old Vic in 1968 .
As John Lennon career progressed , John Lennon played a variety of electric guitars , predominantly the Rickenbacker 325 , Epiphone Casino and Gibson J-160E , and , from the start of John Lennon solo career , the Gibson Les Paul Junior .
When the Beatles recorded `` Twist and Shout '' , the final track during the mammoth one-day session that produced the band 's 1963 debut album , Please Please John Lennon , Lennon 's voice , already compromised by a cold , came close to giving out .
Wiener too describes contrasts , saying John Lennon voice can be `` at first subdued ; soon it almost cracks with despair '' Music historian Ben Urish recalls hearing the Beatles ' Ed Sullivan Show performance of `` This Boy '' played on the radio a few days after John Lennon murder : `` As John Lennon vocals reached their peak ... it hurt too much to hear him scream with such anguish and emotion .
Music historians Schinder and Schwartz , writing of the transformation in popular music styles that took place between the 1950s and the 1960s , say that the Beatles ' influence can not be overstated : having `` revolutionised the sound , style , and attitude of popular music and opened rock and roll 's doors to a tidal wave of British rock acts '' , the group then `` spent the rest of the 1960s expanding rock 's stylistic frontiers '' .
That willingness to take risks with John Lennon career , and John Lennon life , is one reason why people still admire John Lennon today '' .
Double Fantasy , released shortly before John Lennon death , and John Lennon best-selling , post-Beatles ' studio album at three million shipments in the US , won the 1981 Grammy Award for Album of the Year .
John Cleese and Chapman 's sketches often involved authority figures , some of which were performed by John Cleese , while Jones and Palin were both infatuated with filmed scenes that open with idyllic countryside panoramas .
Such was the popularity of the series that in 1966 John Cleese and Chapman were invited to work as writers and performers with Brooke-Taylor and Feldman on At Last the 1948 Show , during which time the Four Yorkshiremen sketch was written by all four writers/performers ( the Four Yorkshiremen sketch is now better known as a Monty Python sketch ) .
Unlike Palin and Jones , Cleese and Chapman actually wrote together -- in the same room ; Cleese claims that their writing partnership involved John Cleese sitting with pen and paper , doing most of the work , while Chapman sat back , not speaking for long periods , then suddenly coming out with an idea that often elevated the sketch to a different level .
A classic example of this is the `` Dead Parrot '' sketch , envisaged by John Cleese as a satire on poor customer service , which was originally to have involved a broken toaster and later a broken car ( this version was actually performed and broadcast on the pre-Python special How To Irritate People ) .
All of these roles were opposite Palin ( who Cleese often claims is John Cleese favourite Python to work with ) -- the comic contrast between the towering Cleese 's crazed aggression and the shorter Palin 's shuffling inoffensiveness is a common feature in the series .
Despite this , John Cleese remained friendly with the group , and all six began writing Monty Python and the Holy Grail ; Cleese received a credit on three episodes of the fourth series which used material from these sessions , though John Cleese was officially unconnected with the fourth series .
Fawlty Towers consisted of only twelve episodes ; John Cleese and Booth both maintain that this was to avoid compromising the quality of the series .
John Cleese has finally had enough and protests that John Cleese is leaving the show , saying `` You were supposed to be John Cleese host .
The books are presented as a dialogue between Skynner and John Cleese .
The follow-up to A Fish Called Wanda , Fierce Creatures -- which again starred John Cleese alongside Kevin Kline , Jamie Lee Curtis , and Michael Palin -- was also released that year , but was greeted with mixed reception by critics and audiences .
John Cleese has since appeared in broadcasts for the Liberal Democrats , in the 1997 general election and narrating a radio election broadcast for the party during the 2001 general election .
In 2011 , Cleese declared John Cleese admiration for Britain 's coalition government between the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats , saying : `` John Cleese think what 's happening at the moment is rather interesting .
Outgoing leader of the Liberal Democrats , Paddy Ashdown , had put forward the suggestion shortly before John Cleese stepped down , with the idea that Cleese would take the party whip and sit as a working peer , but the actor quipped that John Cleese `` realised this involved being in England in the winter and John Cleese thought that was too much of a price to pay '' .
and `` John Cleese mean , John Cleese love having different cultures around .
John Cleese is a fan of the show , and co-wrote much of the episode .
Alexander governed tyrannically , and according to Diodorus , differently from the former rulers , but Polyphron , at least , seems to have set Alexander of Pherae the example .
During the next three years , Alexander seemed to renew Alexander of Pherae attempts to subdue the states of Thessaly , especially Magnesia and Phthiotis , for upon the expiry of the truce , in 364 BC , they again applied to Thebes for protection from Alexander of Pherae .
The Theban army under Pelopidas is said to have been dismayed by an eclipse ( on July 13 , 364 , see 4th century BC eclipses ) , and Pelopidas , leaving the bulk of Alexander of Pherae army behind , entered Thessaly at the head of three hundred volunteer horsemen and some mercenaries .
John Lynch (New Hampshire) ( born November 25 , 1952 ) is an American businessman and politician who served as the 80th Governor of the U.S. State of New Hampshire .
As a candidate for Governor , John Lynch (New Hampshire) took `` The Pledge '' not to enact any broad-based taxes , especially a Sales or Income tax .
In 2007 , John Lynch (New Hampshire) signed into law the Research and Development Tax credit which , for the following five years , appropriated $ 1,000,000 for companies to write off qualifying `` manufacturing research and development '' expenditures .
John Lynch (New Hampshire) was rated the `` Safest State '' in the Nation in 2008 and 2009 .
John Lynch (New Hampshire) is an American businessman and politician who served as the 80th Governor of the U.S. State of New Hampshire .
J. R. R. Tolkien served as the Rawlinson and Bosworth Professor of Anglo-Saxon at Pembroke College , Oxford , from 1925 to 1945 and Merton Professor of English Language and Literature at Merton College , Oxford from 1945 to 1959 .
After J. R. R. Tolkien death , Tolkien 's son Christopher published a series of works based on J. R. R. Tolkien father 's extensive notes and unpublished manuscripts , including The Silmarillion .
These , together with The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings form a connected body of tales , poems , fictional histories , invented languages , and literary essays about a fantasy world called Arda , and Middle-earth within it .
Between 1951 and 1955 , Tolkien applied the term legendarium to the larger part of these writings .
This has caused Tolkien to be popularly identified as the `` father '' of modern fantasy literature -- or , more precisely , of high fantasy .
As a child , J. R. R. Tolkien was bitten by a large baboon spider in the garden , an event which some think would have later echoes in J. R. R. Tolkien stories , although Tolkien admitted no actual memory of the event and no special hatred of spiders as an adult .
When J. R. R. Tolkien was three , J. R. R. Tolkien went to England with J. R. R. Tolkien mother and brother on what was intended to be a lengthy family visit .
J. R. R. Tolkien enjoyed exploring Sarehole Mill and Moseley Bog and the Clent , Lickey and Malvern Hills , which would later inspire scenes in J. R. R. Tolkien books , along with Worcestershire towns and villages such as Bromsgrove , Alcester , and Alvechurch and places such as J. R. R. Tolkien aunt Jane 's farm of Bag End , the name of which would be used in J. R. R. Tolkien fiction .
Mabel Tolkien herself taught her two children , and Ronald , as J. R. R. Tolkien was known in the family , was a keen pupil .
Young Tolkien liked to draw landscapes and trees , but J. R. R. Tolkien favourite lessons were those concerning languages , and J. R. R. Tolkien mother taught J. R. R. Tolkien the rudiments of Latin very early .
J. R. R. Tolkien liked stories about `` Red Indians '' and the fantasy works by George MacDonald .
In addition , the `` Fairy Books '' of Andrew Lang were particularly important to J. R. R. Tolkien and their influence is apparent in some of J. R. R. Tolkien later writings .
Nine years after J. R. R. Tolkien mother 's death , Tolkien wrote , `` J. R. R. Tolkien own dear mother was a martyr indeed , and it is not to everybody that God grants so easy a way to J. R. R. Tolkien great gifts as J. R. R. Tolkien did to Hilary and myself , giving us a mother who killed herself with labour and trouble to ensure us keeping the faith '' .
J. R. R. Tolkien lived there in the shadow of Perrott 's Folly and the Victorian tower of Edgbaston Waterworks , which may have influenced the images of the dark towers within J. R. R. Tolkien works .
Another strong influence was the romantic medievalist paintings of Edward Burne-Jones and the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood ; the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery had a large collection of works on public display .
While in J. R. R. Tolkien early teens , Tolkien had J. R. R. Tolkien first encounter with a constructed language , Animalic , an invention of J. R. R. Tolkien cousins , Mary and Marjorie Incledon .
At that time , J. R. R. Tolkien was studying Latin and Anglo-Saxon .
Interest in the language soon died away , but Mary and others , including Tolkien J. R. R. Tolkien , invented a new and more complex language called Nevbosh .
The 1911 census of England and Wales shows Tolkien ( occupation `` school '' ) lodging at 4 Highfield Road , Edgbaston , along with J. R. R. Tolkien brother Hilary ( occupation `` hardware merchant 's clerk '' ) .
In 1911 , Tolkien went on a summer holiday in Switzerland , a trip that J. R. R. Tolkien recollects vividly in a 1968 letter , noting that Bilbo 's journey across the Misty Mountains ( `` including the glissade down the slithering stones into the pine woods '' ) is directly based on J. R. R. Tolkien adventures as their party of 12 hiked from Interlaken to Lauterbrunnen and on to camp in the moraines beyond Mürren .
Fifty-seven years later , Tolkien remembered J. R. R. Tolkien regret at leaving the view of the eternal snows of Jungfrau and Silberhorn ( `` the Silvertine ( Celebdil ) of J. R. R. Tolkien dreams '' ) .
J. R. R. Tolkien initially studied Classics but changed J. R. R. Tolkien course in 1913 to English Language and Literature , graduating in 1915 with first-class honours in J. R. R. Tolkien final examinations .
Tolkien wrote that the experience taught J. R. R. Tolkien , ' a deep sympathy and feeling for the Tommy ; especially the plain soldier from the agricultural counties ' .
A weak and emaciated Tolkien spent the remainder of the war alternating between hospitals and garrison duties , being deemed medically unfit for general service .
When J. R. R. Tolkien was stationed at Kingston upon Hull , J. R. R. Tolkien and Edith went walking in the woods at nearby Roos , and Edith began to dance for J. R. R. Tolkien in a clearing among the flowering hemlock .
It was first conceived in a small woodland glade filled with hemlocks at Roos in Yorkshire ( where J. R. R. Tolkien was for a brief time in command of an outpost of the Humber Garrison in 1917 , and she was able to live with J. R. R. Tolkien for a while ) .
But the story has gone crooked , & I am left , and J. R. R. Tolkien can not plead before the inexorable Mandos .
Tolkien 's first civilian job after World War J. R. R. Tolkien was at the Oxford English Dictionary , where J. R. R. Tolkien worked mainly on the history and etymology of words of Germanic origin beginning with the letter W .
While at Leeds , J. R. R. Tolkien produced A Middle English Vocabulary and a definitive edition of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight with E. V. Gordon , both becoming academic standard works for several decades .
J. R. R. Tolkien also translated Sir Gawain , Pearl , and Sir Orfeo .
In 1925 , J. R. R. Tolkien returned to Oxford as Rawlinson and Bosworth Professor of Anglo-Saxon , with a fellowship at Pembroke College .
During J. R. R. Tolkien time at Pembroke College Tolkien wrote The Hobbit and the first two volumes of The Lord of the Rings , whilst living at 20 Northmoor Road in North Oxford ( where a blue plaque was placed in 2002 ) .
In the essay , Tolkien also revealed how highly he regarded Beowulf : `` Beowulf is among J. R. R. Tolkien most valued sources , '' and this influence may be seen throughout J. R. R. Tolkien Middle-earth legendarium .
In 2003 , Tolkien 's handwritten translation of and commentary on Beowulf , running to roughly 2000 pages , was discovered in the archives of the Bodleian Library .
In 1945 , Tolkien moved to Merton College , Oxford , becoming the Merton Professor of English Language and Literature , in which post J. R. R. Tolkien remained until J. R. R. Tolkien retirement in 1959 .
The Tolkiens had four children : John Francis Reuel Tolkien ( 17 November 1917 -- 22 January 2003 ) , Michael Hilary Reuel Tolkien ( 22 October 1920 -- 27 February 1984 ) , Christopher John Reuel Tolkien ( born 21 November 1924 ) and Priscilla Mary Anne Reuel Tolkien ( born 18 June 1929 ) .
During J. R. R. Tolkien life in retirement , from 1959 up to J. R. R. Tolkien death in 1973 , Tolkien received steadily increasing public attention and literary fame .
Fan attention became so intense that Tolkien had to take J. R. R. Tolkien phone number out of the public directory , and eventually J. R. R. Tolkien and Edith moved to Bournemouth , which was then a seaside resort patronized by the British upper middle class .
According to Humphrey Carpenter , Those friends who knew Ronald and Edith Tolkien over the years never doubted that there was deep affection between them .
It was visible in the small things , the almost absurd degree in which each worried about the other 's health , and the care in which they chose and wrapped each other 's birthday presents ' ; and in the large matters , the way in which Ronald willingly abandoned such a large part of J. R. R. Tolkien life in retirement to give Edith the last years in Bournemouth that J. R. R. Tolkien felt she deserved , and the degree in which she showed pride in J. R. R. Tolkien fame as an author .
`` J. R. R. Tolkien grandmother died two years before J. R. R. Tolkien grandfather and J. R. R. Tolkien came back to live in Oxford .
J. R. R. Tolkien went there frequently and J. R. R. Tolkien 'd take J. R. R. Tolkien to lunch in the Eastgate Hotel .
Tolkien was a devout Roman Catholic , and in J. R. R. Tolkien religious and political views J. R. R. Tolkien was mostly a traditionalist moderate , with libertarian and monarchist leanings , in the sense of favouring established conventions and orthodoxies over innovation and modernization , whilst castigating state controls ; in 1943 J. R. R. Tolkien wrote , `` J. R. R. Tolkien political opinions lean more and more to Anarchy ( philosophically understood , meaning abolition of control not whiskered men with bombs ) -- or to ` unconstitutional ' Monarchy '' .
Tolkien had an intense dislike for the side effects of industrialization , which J. R. R. Tolkien considered to be devouring the English countryside and simpler life .
Many commentators have remarked on a number of potential parallels between the Middle-earth saga and events in Tolkien 's lifetime .
This theme is taken up at greater length in J. R. R. Tolkien essay `` On Fairy-Stories '' , where J. R. R. Tolkien argues that fairy-stories are so apt because they are consistent both within themselves and with some truths about reality .
J. R. R. Tolkien love of myths and J. R. R. Tolkien devout faith came together in J. R. R. Tolkien assertion that J. R. R. Tolkien believed mythology to be the divine echo of `` the Truth '' .
In the last years of J. R. R. Tolkien life , Tolkien became greatly disappointed by some of the liturgical reforms and changes implemented after the Second Vatican Council , as J. R. R. Tolkien grandson Simon Tolkien recalls : J. R. R. Tolkien vividly remember going to church with J. R. R. Tolkien in Bournemouth .
Well , well , -- you and J. R. R. Tolkien can do nothing about it .
The Germans have just as much right to declare the Poles and Jews exterminable vermin , subhuman , as we have to select the Germans : in other words , no right , whatever they have done .
J. R. R. Tolkien was horrified by the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki , referring to the scientists of the Manhattan Project as `` these lunatic physicists '' and `` Babel-builders '' .
Tolkien wished to imitate Morris 's prose and poetry romances , from which J. R. R. Tolkien took hints for the names of features such as the Dead Marshes in The Lord of the Rings and Mirkwood , along with some general aspects of approach .
A supposed facsimile of this potsherd appeared in Haggard 's first edition , and the ancient inscription it bore , once translated , led the English characters to She 's ancient kingdom .
Critics starting with Edwin Muir have found resemblances between Haggard 's romances and Tolkien 's .
Tolkien was much inspired by early Germanic , especially Old English , literature , poetry , and mythology , which were J. R. R. Tolkien chosen and much-loved areas of expertise .
Despite the similarities of J. R. R. Tolkien work to the Volsunga saga and the Nibelungenlied , which were the basis for Richard Wagner 's opera cycle Der Ring des Nibelungen , Tolkien dismissed critics ' direct comparisons to Wagner , telling J. R. R. Tolkien publisher , `` Both rings were round , and there the resemblance ceases '' .
J. R. R. Tolkien goes on to argue that in The Lord of the Rings evil does sometimes seem to be an independent force , more than merely the absence of good ( though not independent to the point of the Manichaean heresy ) , and suggests that Alfred 's additions to J. R. R. Tolkien translation of Boethius may have inspired that view .
As for the poem , one dragon , however hot , does not make a summer , or a host ; and a man might well exchange for one good dragon what J. R. R. Tolkien would not sell for a wilderness .
J. R. R. Tolkien wrote annual Christmas letters from Father Christmas for them , building up a series of short stories ( later compiled and published as The Father Christmas Letters ) .
Roverandom and Smith of Wootton Major , like The Hobbit , borrowed ideas from J. R. R. Tolkien legendarium .
Tolkien spent more than ten years writing the primary narrative and appendices for The Lord of the Rings , during which time J. R. R. Tolkien received the constant support of the Inklings , in particular J. R. R. Tolkien closest friend Lewis , the author of The Chronicles of Narnia .
In 2002 Tolkien was voted the 92nd `` greatest Briton '' in a poll conducted by the BBC , and in 2004 J. R. R. Tolkien was voted 35th in the SABC3 's Great South Africans , the only person to appear in both lists .
Tolkien desperately hoped to publish it along with The Lord of the Rings , but publishers ( both Allen & Unwin and Collins ) got cold feet .
In subsequent years ( 1983 -- 1996 ) J. R. R. Tolkien published a large amount of the remaining unpublished materials , together with notes and extensive commentary , in a series of twelve volumes called The History of Middle-earth .
The novel tells the story of Túrin Turambar and J. R. R. Tolkien sister Nienor , children of Húrin Thalion .
The work , which was released worldwide on 5 May 2009 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt and HarperCollins , retells the legend of Sigurd and the fall of the Niflungs from Germanic mythology .
Christopher Tolkien supplied copious notes and commentary upon J. R. R. Tolkien father 's work .
For J. R. R. Tolkien part , J. R. R. Tolkien can not recall any conversation with J. R. R. Tolkien on the subject until very near the end of J. R. R. Tolkien life , when J. R. R. Tolkien spoke of them to J. R. R. Tolkien , and tried unsuccessfully to find them '' .
In a 1967 letter to W. H. Auden , Tolkien wrote , `` Thank you for your wonderful effort in translating and reorganizing The Song of the Sibyl .
Before J. R. R. Tolkien death Tolkien negotiated the sale of the manuscripts , drafts , proofs and other materials related to J. R. R. Tolkien then-published works -- including The Lord of the Rings , The Hobbit and Farmer Giles of Ham -- to the Department of Special Collections and University Archives at Marquette University 's John P. Raynor , S.J. , Library in Milwaukee , Wisconsin .
After J. R. R. Tolkien death J. R. R. Tolkien estate donated the papers containing Tolkien 's Silmarillion mythology and J. R. R. Tolkien academic work to Oxford University 's Bodleian Library .
Both Tolkien 's academic career and J. R. R. Tolkien literary production are inseparable from J. R. R. Tolkien love of language and philology .
J. R. R. Tolkien worked for the Oxford English Dictionary from 1918 and is credited with having worked on a number of words starting with the letter W , including walrus , over which J. R. R. Tolkien struggled mightily .
J. R. R. Tolkien gave courses in Old English heroic verse , history of English , various Old English and Middle English texts , Old and Middle English philology , introductory Germanic philology , Gothic , Old Icelandic , and Medieval Welsh .
When in 1925 , aged thirty-three , Tolkien applied for the Rawlinson and Bosworth Professorship of Anglo-Saxon at Pembroke College , Oxford , J. R. R. Tolkien boasted that J. R. R. Tolkien students of Germanic philology in Leeds had even formed a `` Viking Club '' .
Privately , Tolkien was attracted to `` things of racial and linguistic significance '' , and in J. R. R. Tolkien 1955 lecture English and Welsh , which is crucial to J. R. R. Tolkien understanding of race and language , J. R. R. Tolkien entertained notions of `` inherent linguistic predilections '' , which J. R. R. Tolkien termed the `` native language '' as opposed to the `` cradle-tongue '' which a person first learns to speak .
J. R. R. Tolkien considered the West Midlands dialect of Middle English to be J. R. R. Tolkien own `` native language '' , and , as J. R. R. Tolkien wrote to W. H. Auden in 1955 , `` J. R. R. Tolkien am a West-midlander by blood ( and took to early west-midland Middle English as a known tongue as soon as J. R. R. Tolkien set eyes on it ) '' .
Tolkien learned Latin , French , and German from J. R. R. Tolkien mother , and while at school J. R. R. Tolkien learned Middle English , Old English , Finnish , Gothic , Greek , Italian , Old Norse , Spanish , Welsh , and Medieval Welsh .
J. R. R. Tolkien was also familiar with Danish , Dutch , Lombardic , Norwegian , Russian , Serbian , Swedish and older forms of modern Germanic and Slavonic languages , revealing J. R. R. Tolkien deep linguistic knowledge , above all of the Germanic languages .
Parallel to Tolkien 's professional work as a philologist , and sometimes overshadowing this work , to the effect that J. R. R. Tolkien academic output remained rather thin , was J. R. R. Tolkien affection for constructing languages .
The most developed of these are Quenya and Sindarin , the etymological connection between which formed the core of much of Tolkien 's legendarium .
A notable addition came in late 1945 with Adûnaic or Númenórean , a language of a `` faintly Semitic flavour '' , connected with Tolkien 's Atlantis legend , which by The Notion Club Papers ties directly into J. R. R. Tolkien ideas about inability of language to be inherited , and via the `` Second Age '' and the story of Eärendil was grounded in the legendarium , thereby providing a link of Tolkien 's 20th-century `` real primary world '' with the legendary past of J. R. R. Tolkien Middle-earth .
Tolkien considered languages inseparable from the mythology associated with them , and J. R. R. Tolkien consequently took a dim view of auxiliary languages : in 1930 a congress of Esperantists were told as much by J. R. R. Tolkien , in J. R. R. Tolkien lecture A Secret Vice , `` Your language construction will breed a mythology '' , but by 1956 J. R. R. Tolkien had concluded that `` Volapük , Esperanto , Ido , Novial , & c , & c , are dead , far deader than ancient unused languages , because their authors never invented any Esperanto legends '' .
In a 1951 letter to Milton Waldman , Tolkien wrote about J. R. R. Tolkien intentions to create a `` body of more or less connected legend '' , of which `` the cycles should be linked to a majestic whole , and yet leave scope for other minds and hands , wielding paint and music and drama '' .
Personally known to J. R. R. Tolkien were Pauline Baynes ( Tolkien 's favourite illustrator of The Adventures of Tom Bombadil and Farmer Giles of Ham ) and Donald Swann ( who set the music to The Road Goes Ever On ) .
In 1946 , J. R. R. Tolkien rejected suggestions for illustrations by Horus Engels for the German edition of The Hobbit as `` too Disnified ... Bilbo with a dribbling nose , and Gandalf as a figure of vulgar fun rather than the Odinic wanderer that J. R. R. Tolkien think of '' .
J. R. R. Tolkien was not implacably opposed to the idea of a dramatic adaptation , however , and sold the film , stage and merchandise rights of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings to United Artists in 1968 .
In 1977 an animated TV production of The Hobbit was made by Rankin-Bass , and in 1980 they produced an animated The Return of the King , which covered some of the portions of The Lord of the Rings that Bakshi was unable to complete .
In the Dutch town of Geldrop , near Eindhoven , the streets of an entire new neighbourhood are named after Tolkien himself ( `` Laan van Tolkien '' ) and some of the best-known characters from J. R. R. Tolkien books .
In the Silicon Valley towns of Saratoga and San Jose in California , there are two housing developments with street names drawn from Tolkien 's works .
At the University of California at Davis are `` Baggins End Innovative Housing '' , an on-campus commune consisting of 14 polyurethane-insulated fibreglass domes , and an off-campus development known as `` Village Homes '' , a planned community designed to be ecologically sustainable and whose street names are taken from The Lord of the Rings .
The Columbia , Maryland , neighbourhood of Hobbit 's Glen and its street names ( including Rivendell Lane , Tooks Way , and Oakenshield Circle ) come from Tolkien 's works .
In Weston-super-Mare , Somerset , England there are a collection of roads in the ` Weston Village ' named after locales of the Middle Earth ; Hobbiton Road , Bree Close , Arnor Close , Rivendell , Westmarch Way and Buckland Green .
One of the Birmingham plaques commemorates the inspiration provided by Sarehole Mill , near which J. R. R. Tolkien lived between the ages of four and eight , while two mark childhood homes up to the time J. R. R. Tolkien left to attend Oxford University and the other marks a hotel J. R. R. Tolkien stayed at before leaving for France during World War I .
The plaque in West Park , Leeds , commemorates the five years Tolkien enjoyed at Leeds as Reader and then Professor of English Language at the University .
Owing to J. R. R. Tolkien popularity , handsigned copies of J. R. R. Tolkien letters or of the first editions of J. R. R. Tolkien individual writings have however achieved high values at auctions , and forged autographs may occur on the market .
J. R. R. Tolkien is an English writer , poet , philologist , and university professor .
J. R. R. Tolkien is a West-midlander by blood ( and took to early west-midland Middle English as a known tongue as soon as I set eyes on it ) .
Cabell 's supposed involvement in the Scott murder and James Branch Cabell college `` scandal '' were both mentioned in Ellen Glasgow 's posthumously published ( 1954 ) autobiography The Woman Within .
Between 1911 and 1913 , James Branch Cabell was employed by James Branch Cabell uncle in the office of the Branch coalmines in West Virginia .
Today , the modern languages house and an endowed law professorship at the College of William and Mary are named in James Branch Cabell honor .
The case went on for two years before Cabell and James Branch Cabell publisher , Robert M. McBride , won : the `` indecencies '' were double entendres that also had a perfectly decent interpretation , though it appeared that what had actually offended the prosecution most was a joke about papal infallibility .
A number of the volumes of the Biography were also published in editions illustrated by Frank C. Papé between 1921 and 1926 .
James Branch Cabell later novel , The First Gentleman of America : A Comedy of Conquest ( 1942 ) , retells the strange career of an American Indian from the shores of the Potomac who sailed away with Spanish explorers , later to return , be made chief of James Branch Cabell tribe , and kill all the Spaniards in the new Virginia settlement .
James Blish was a fan of Cabell 's works , and for a time edited Kalki , the journal of the Cabell Society .
Cabell was also a major influence on Neil Gaiman , acknowledged as such in the rear of Gaiman 's novels Stardust and American Gods .
This thematic and stylistic influence is highly evident in the multi-layered pantheons of Gaiman 's most famous work , The Sandman , which have many parallels in Cabell 's work , particularly Jurgen .
Swanwick places much of the blame for Cabell 's obscurity on Cabell James Branch Cabell , for authorising the 18-volume Storisende uniform edition of the Biography of the Life of Manuel , including much that was of poor quality and ephemeral .
Alexander II of Epirus was a king of Epirus , and the son of Pyrrhus and Lanassa , the daughter of the Sicilian tyrant Agathocles .
Alexander II of Epirus was , however , dispossessed of both Macedon and Epirus by Demetrius II of Macedon , the son of Antigonus II ; upon which Alexander II of Epirus took refuge amongst the Acarnanians .
By their assistance and that of Alexander II of Epirus own subjects , who entertained a great attachment for Alexander II of Epirus , Alexander II of Epirus recovered Epirus .
Alexander II of Epirus is a king of Epirus , and the son of Pyrrhus and Lanassa , the daughter of the Sicilian tyrant Agathocles .
The language derives much of Java (programming language) syntax from C and C++ , but Java (programming language) has fewer low-level facilities than either of them .
Because Java lacks any formal standardization recognized by Ecma International , ISO/IEC , ANSI , or other third-party standards organization , the Oracle implementation is the de facto standard .
This resulted in a legal dispute with Microsoft after Sun claimed that the Microsoft implementation did not support RMI or JNI and had added platform-specific features of their own .
Programs written in Java (programming language) have a reputation for being slower and requiring more memory than those written in C++ .
Java (programming language) does not support C/C + + style pointer arithmetic , where object addresses and unsigned integers ( usually long integers ) can be used interchangeably .
As in C++ and some other object-oriented languages , variables of Java 's primitive data types are not objects .
The effect of this alternate declaration is semantically identical ( the args parameter is still an array of String objects ) , but Java (programming language) allows an alternative syntax for creating and passing the array .
Criticisms directed at Java (programming language) include the implementation of generics , speed , the handling of unsigned numbers , the implementation of floating-point arithmetic , and a history of security vulnerabilities in the primary Java VM implementation HotSpot .
Google and Android , Inc. have chosen to use Java (programming language) as a key pillar in the creation of the Android operating system , an open-source smartphone operating system .
Gaikai ( Japanese for `` open ocean '' ) is a cloud-based gaming service that allows users to play high-end PC and console games via the cloud and instantly demo games and applications from a webpage on any computer or internet-connected device .
Javadoc comments have an extra asterisk at the beginning , i.e. the tags are / Sun has defined and supports four editions of Java targeting different application environments and segmented many of Java (programming language) APIs so that Java (programming language) belong to one of the platforms .
Jason ( , Iásōn ) was an ancient Greek mythological hero who was famous for his role as the leader of the Argonauts and their quest for the Golden Fleece .
Jason , knowing that he was the rightful king , told Pelias that and Pelias said , `` To take my throne , which you shall , you must go on a quest to find the Golden Fleece '' .
The men then took concubines from the Thracian mainland opposite , and the spurned women , angry at Aphrodite , killed all the male inhabitants while Jason slept .
Medea distracted her father , who chased them as they fled , by killing her brother Apsyrtus and throwing pieces of his body into the sea ; Aeetes stopped to gather them .
The girls , rather naively , sliced and diced their father and put him in the cauldron .
When Medea confronted Jason about the engagement and cited all the help she had given him , he retorted that it was not she that he should thank , but Aphrodite who made Medea fall in love with him .
Infuriated with Jason for breaking his vow that he would be hers forever , Medea took her revenge by presenting to Creusa a cursed dress , as a wedding gift , that stuck to her body and burned her to death as soon as she put it on .
The Oral Law is the oral tradition , as relayed by God to Moses and from Judah ha-Nasi , transmitted and taught to the sages ( rabbinic leaders ) of each subsequent generation For centuries , the Torah appeared only as a written text transmitted in parallel with the oral tradition .
This completed a project which had been mostly clarified and organized by Judah ha-Nasi father and Rabbi Natan .
Alexander Jagiellon was elected Grand Duke of Lithuania on the death of Alexander Jagiellon father ( 1492 ) , and King of Poland on the death of Alexander Jagiellon brother John I Albert ( 1501 ) .
Alexander 's shortage of funds immediately made Alexander Jagiellon subservient to the Polish Senate and nobility ( szlachta ) , who deprived Alexander Jagiellon of control of the mint ( then one of the most lucrative sources of revenue for the Polish kings ) , curtailed Alexander Jagiellon prerogatives , and generally endeavored to reduce Alexander Jagiellon to a subordinate position .
The most the Grand Duke of Lithuania could do was to garrison Smolensk and other strongholds and employ Alexander Jagiellon wife Helena , the Tsar 's daughter , to mediate a truce between Alexander Jagiellon father-in-law and Alexander Jagiellon after the disastrous Battle of Vedrosha ( 1500 ) .
Only the death of Stephen , the great hospodar of Moldavia , enabled Poland still to hold her own on the Danube River ; while the liberality of Pope Julius II , who issued no fewer than 29 bulls in favor of Poland and granted Alexander Peter 's Pence and other financial help , enabled Alexander Jagiellon to restrain somewhat the arrogance of the Teutonic Order .
Alexander Jagiellon is the Grand Duke of Lithuania and later also King of Poland .
Kerouac became an underground celebrity and , with other beats , a progenitor of the hippie movement , although Jack Kerouac remained antagonistic toward some of its politically radical elements .
All of Jack Kerouac books are in print today , among them : On the Road , Doctor Sax , The Dharma Bums , Mexico City Blues , The Subterraneans , Desolation Angels , Visions of Cody , The Sea is Jack Kerouac Brother , and Big Sur .
There is some confusion surrounding Jack Kerouac original name , partly due to variations on the spelling of Kerouac , and partly because of Kerouac 's own promotion of Jack Kerouac name as Jean-Louis Lebris de Kerouac .
This experience , along with Jack Kerouac dying brother 's vision of the Virgin Mary , as the nuns fawned over him convinced that Jack Kerouac was a saint , combined with a later discovery of Buddhism and ongoing commitment to Christ , solidified Jack Kerouac worldview which informs Jack Kerouac work .
In fact , according to Jack Kerouac Columbia professor and mentor Mark Van Doren , Jack Kerouac had outlined much of the work in Jack Kerouac journals over the several preceding years .
Before On the Road was accepted by Viking Press , Kerouac got a job as a `` railroad brakesman and fire lookout '' traveling between the East and West coasts of America to collect money , so Jack Kerouac could live with Jack Kerouac mother .
Jack Kerouac found Jack Kerouac in the sky , in Market Street San Francisco ( those 2 visions ) , and Dean ( Neal ) had God sweating out of Jack Kerouac forehead all the way .
According to Jack Kerouac authorized biographer , historian Douglas Brinkley , On the Road has been misinterpreted as a tale of companions out looking for kicks , but the most important thing to comprehend is that Kerouac was an American Catholic author -- for example , virtually every page of Jack Kerouac diary bore a sketch of a crucifix , a prayer , or an appeal to Christ to be forgiven .
Huncke used the term `` beat '' to describe a person with little money and few prospects .
Kerouac 's novel is often described as the defining work of the post-World War II Beat Generation and Kerouac came to be called `` the king of the beat generation , '' a term that Jack Kerouac never felt comfortable with .
`` A gaping , rabid congregation , eager to bathe , are washed over by the Font of Euphoria , and bask like protozoans in the celebrated light '' .
The CBS Television series Route 66 ( 1960 -- 64 ) , featuring two untethered young men `` on the road '' in a Corvette seeking adventure and fueling their travels by apparently plentiful temporary jobs in the various U.S. locales framing the anthology styled stories , gave the impression of being a commercially sanitized misappropriation of Jack Kerouac `` On The Road '' story model .
Even the leads , Buz and Todd , bore a resemblance to the dark , athletic Jack Kerouac and the blonde Cassady/Moriarty , respectively .
However , such ruling had no effect on the copyright ownership of Jack Kerouac literary works , since in 2004 a Florida Probate Court ruled that `` any claim against any assets or property which were inherited or received by any of the SAMPAS respondents through the Estate of Stella Sampas Jack Kerouac , Deceased , is barred by reason of the provisions of Florida Statute § 733.710 ( 1989 ) '' .
The central features of this writing method were the ideas of breath ( borrowed from Jazz and from Buddhist meditation breathing ) , improvising words over the inherent structures of mind and language , and not editing a single word ( much of Jack Kerouac work was edited by Donald Merriam Allen , a major figure in Beat Generation poetry who edited some of Ginsberg 's work as well ) .
The Dharma Bums contains accounts of a mountain climbing trip Jack Kerouac took with Snyder , and also whole paragraphs from letters Snyder had written to Jack Kerouac .
Some believed that at times Jack Kerouac writing technique did not produce lively or energetic prose .
The technique Kerouac developed that later made Jack Kerouac famous was heavily influenced by Jazz , especially Bebop , and later , Buddhism , as well as the famous `` Joan Anderson letter '' authored by Neal Cassady .
In 1987 , a song written by Marc Chabot and featured on a popular music album released in Québec by Richard Séguin , song titled L'ange vagabond , explores some aspects of Jack Kerouac life .
In 2009 , the movie One Fast Move or Jack Kerouac 'm Gone - Kerouac 's Big Sur was released .
Those extras , called The Beat Goes On , include rare and unseen footage of Abbie Hoffman , Timothy Leary , Paul Krassner , Allen Ginsberg , William S. Burroughs , Gregory Corso , Gary Snyder , Steve Allen , Ann Charters , Michael McClure , Robert Creeley , Herbert Huncke , Carolyn Cassady , Paul Gleason , John Clellon Holmes , Edie Jack Kerouac Parker , Jan Jack Kerouac , William F. Buckley , Jr. , and Father Spike Morissette .
Jack Kerouac is an underground celebrity and , with other beats , a progenitor of the hippie movement , although he remained antagonistic toward some of its politically radical elements .
Jeff Mills ( born 18 June 1963 , Detroit , Michigan ) is an American techno DJ and producer .
In Jeff Mills DJ sets , Mills usually uses three decks , a Roland TR-909 drum-machine , and up to seventy records in one hour .
Mills ' Exhibitionist DVD , from 2004 , features Jeff Mills mixing live on three decks and CD player in a studio .
Major 's premiership saw the world go through a period of political and military transition after the end of the Cold War .
This included the rise of the European Union , an issue which was already a source of friction within the Conservative Party owing to its importance in the decline and fall of Margaret Thatcher .
John Major was born at the St. Helier Hospital in Sutton , Surrey , the son of Gwen Major ( née Gwendolen Minnie Coates ) and former music hall performer Tom Major-Ball ( né Abraham Thomas Ball ) , who was 64 years old when John Major was born .
After a period of unemployment , Major started working at the London Electricity Board ( where John Major successor as the Prime Minister , Tony Blair , also worked when John Major was young ) in 1963 , and John Major decided to undertake a correspondence course in banking .
However , even these moves towards greater European integration met with vehement opposition from the Eurosceptic wing of the party and the Cabinet as the Government attempted to ratify the Maastricht Treaty in the first half of 1993 .
In 1992 , David Mellor , a cabinet minister , had been exposed as having an extramarital affair and for accepting hospitality from the daughter of a leading member of the Palestine Liberation Organization .
A string of other Conservative MPs , including Alan Amos , Tim Yeo , and Michael Brown , were involved in sexual scandals .
John Major attempted to draw some of the sting from the financial scandals by setting up public inquiries -- the Nolan Report into standards expected in public life , and the Scott Report into the Arms to Iraq Scandal .
John Major wrote that John Major took a stern line against financial impropriety , but was angered at the way in which a host of scandals , many of them petty sexual misdemeanours by a small number of MPs , were exploited by the press and Opposition for political advantage .
However , John Major also conceded that the issue `` fed the public belief that the Conservative ( s ) ... had been in government too long , and had got into bad habits '' and quoted Labour 's claim in 1997 : `` Nothing better encapsulates what people think of this government .
When John Major declared to the House of Commons in November 1993 that `` to sit down and talk with Mr. Adams and the Provisional IRA ... would turn John Major stomach '' , Sinn Féin gave the media an outline of the secret talks indeed held regularly since that February .
The Downing Street Declaration was issued on 15 December 1993 by Major and Albert Reynolds , the Irish Taoiseach , with whom John Major had a friendly relationship : an IRA ceasefire followed in 1994 .
The Clinton administration , by contrast , was committed to a policy of ` lift and strike ' ( lifting the arms embargo and inflicting air strikes on the Serbs ) causing tensions in the ` special relationship ' ( Douglas Hurd and others strongly opposed this policy ) .
The Sun newspaper , still at this stage supporting the Conservative Party , had lost faith in John Major and declared its support for Redwood in the leadership election , running the front page headline `` Redwood versus Deadwood '' .
Few then were surprised when Major 's Conservatives lost the 1 May 1997 general election to Tony Blair 's `` New Labour '' , although the immense scale of the defeat was not as widely predicted : in 1987 and 1992 the Conservatives had polled better than had been suggested by the opinion polls , but in 1997 this was no longer the case .
In the new parliament , Labour held 418 seats , the Conservatives 165 , and the Liberal Democrats 46 , giving Labour a majority of 179 .
John Major ca n't believe John Major 's here and sometimes John Major think John Major ca n't either '' .
The media ( particularly The Guardian cartoonist Steve Bell ) used the allegation by Alastair Campbell that John Major had observed Major tucking John Major shirt into John Major underpants to caricature John Major wearing John Major pants outside John Major trousers , as a pale grey echo of both Superman and Supermac , a parody of Harold Macmillan .
Major complained in John Major memoirs that these words ( which drew upon a passage in the sociopolitical commentator and author George Orwell 's `` The Lion and the Unicorn '' ) had been misrepresented as being more naive and romantic than John Major had intended , and indeed John Major memoirs were dismissive of the common conservative viewpoint that there was once a time of moral rectitude ; Major wrote that `` life has never been as simple as that '' .
John Major son James married model Emma Noble on 29 May 1999 , and their son Harrison ( later diagnosed as autistic ) was born the following year .
Moves Used In Jazz Dance include Jazz Hands , Kicks , Leaps , Sideways Shuffling , Rolled Shoulders , and Turned Knees .
An example of this is that during a down time of jazz dancing from 1945 -- 1954 , when big bands and dance halls were declining , the vernacular of Jazz dance followed less jazz music and leaned more toward rock and roll , creating moves like `` The Monkey '' and `` The Jerk '' .
In an early scene in which she first encounters the chess piece characters White King and White Queen , Alice finds a book written in a seemingly unintelligible language .
Carroll 's notes for the original in Mischmasch suggest a `` rath '' is `` a species of Badger '' that `` lived chiefly on cheese '' and had smooth white hair , long hind legs , and short horns like a stag .
The appendices to certain Looking Glass editions , however , state that the creature is `` a species of land turtle '' that lived on swallows and oysters .
Douglas Hofstadter noted in his essay `` Translations of Jabberwocky '' , the word ` slithy ' , for example , echoes the English ` slimy ' , ` slither ' , ` slippery ' , ` lithe ' and ` sly ' .
Full translations of `` Jabberwocky '' into French and German can be found in The Annotated Alice along with a discussion of why some translation decisions were made .
Jabberwocky is a nonsense poem written by Lewis Carroll in his 1871 novel Through the Looking-Glass , and What Alice Found There , a sequel to Alice 's Adventures in Wonderland .
Sir John Sparrow David Thompson , KCMG , PC , QC ( November 10 , 1845 -- December 12 , 1894 ) was a Canadian lawyer , judge , politician , and university professor , who served as the fourth Prime Minister of Canada from December 5 , 1892 until John Sparrow David Thompson death in office on December 12 , 1894 , as well as the fifth Premier of Nova Scotia in 1882 .
Thompson was called to the Nova Scotia Bar in July 1865 , and from 1878 to 1882 served as Attorney General in the provincial government of Simon H. Holmes .
Other matters of concern during Thompson 's tenure as Prime Minister included the reduction of trade tariffs and questions over schooling in Manitoba and in the North West Territories , where disputes over the role of Catholics and Protestants in administering the school system existed .
In the period of his life as heir apparent , the intellectual atmosphere of Saint Petersburg was unfavourable to any kind of change : freedom of thought and all forms of private initiative were being suppressed vigorously .
Soon after the conclusion of peace , important changes were made in legislation concerning industry and commerce , and the new freedom thus afforded produced a large number of limited liability companies .
Now sons of all the `` estates '' , rich and poor , had to serve in the military .
Reorganisation of Judiciary , to include trial in open court , with judges appointed for life , a jury system and the creation of justices of the peace to deal with minor offences at local level .
Encouraging Finnish nationalism and language can also be seen as an attempt to dilute ties with Sweden .
Some of the most prominent intellectuals and politicians on the Continent , most notably Victor Hugo and William Gladstone , sought to raise awareness about the atrocities of the Turks imposed on the Bulgarian population .
Twenty people , with wounds of varying degree , lay on the sidewalk and on the street .
Oscar Wilde 's first play Vera ; or , The Nihilists , written in 1880 -- Alexander II of Russia last year -- features Russian revolutionaries who seek to assassinate a reform-minded Emperor ( and who , in the play , ultimately fail in their plot ) .
Macdonald was a promising student , and in the summer of 1833 , managed the Mackenzie office when John A. Macdonald employer went on a business trip to Montreal and Quebec in Lower Canada ( today the southern portion of the province of Quebec ) .
In 1835 , Macdonald returned to Kingston , and even though not yet of age nor qualified , began John A. Macdonald practice as a lawyer , hoping to gain John A. Macdonald former employer 's clients .
And , while there , John A. Macdonald was learning the arts of argument and of persuasion that would serve John A. Macdonald all John A. Macdonald political life .
All Upper Canadians between 18 and 60 years of age were members of the Sedentary Militia , which was called into active duty during the Rebellions of 1837 .
Macdonald could not represent the prisoners , as they were tried by court martial and civilian counsel had no standing .
Macdonald began to drink heavily around this time , both in public and in private , which Patricia Phenix , who studied Macdonald 's private life , attributes to John A. Macdonald family troubles .
Macdonald resigned , and the Governor General , Sir Edmund Walker Head , invited opposition leader George Brown to form a government .
The law allowed anyone who had held a ministerial position within the last thirty days to accept a new position without needing to face a by-election ; Macdonald and John A. Macdonald ministers accepted new positions , then completed what was dubbed the `` Double Shuffle '' by returning to their old posts .
The final days of the 3rd Canadian Parliament were marked by explosive conflict , as Macdonald and Tupper alleged that MP and railway financier Donald Smith had been allowed to build the Pembina branch of the CPR ( connecting to American lines ) as a reward for betraying the Conservatives during the Pacific Scandal .
Diefenbaker 's recollections do not correspond with John Diefenbaker army medical records , which show no contemporary account of such an injury , and John Diefenbaker biographer , Denis Smith , speculates that any injury was psychosomatic .
On June 30 , 1919 , John Diefenbaker was called to the bar , and the following day , opened a small practice in the village of Wakaw , Saskatchewan .
It was not until 1925 that John Diefenbaker publicly came forward as a Conservative , a year in which both federal and Saskatchewan provincial elections were held .
Journalist and historian Peter C. Newman , in John Diefenbaker best-selling account of the Diefenbaker years , suggested that this choice was made for practical , rather than political reasons , as Diefenbaker had little chance of defeating established politicians and securing the Liberal nomination for either the House of Commons or the Legislative Assembly .
On June 19 , however , Diefenbaker addressed a Conservative organizing committee , and on August 6 , was nominated as the party 's candidate for the federal riding of Prince Albert , a district in which the party 's last candidate had lost John Diefenbaker election deposit .
John Diefenbaker continued a high-profile legal practice , and in 1933 , ran for mayor of Prince Albert .
Angered by the words of John Diefenbaker and fellow Conservative MP Howard Green in seeking to censure the government , the Prime Minister referred to Conservative MPs as `` a mob '' .
Meighen sought to move the Tories to the left , in order to undercut the Liberals and to take support away from the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation ( CCF , the predecessor of the New Democratic Party ( NDP ) ) .
In August 1956 , Drew fell ill and many within the party urged John Diefenbaker to step aside , feeling that the Progressive Conservatives needed vigorous leadership with an election likely within a year .
That is John Diefenbaker approach to public affairs and has been throughout John Diefenbaker life ... A Canada , united from Coast to Coast , wherein there will be freedom for the individual , freedom of enterprise and where there will be a Government which , in all its actions , will remain the servant and not the master of the people .
Why did they not act when the House was sitting in January , February , March , and April ?
Liberal frontbencher Paul Martin ( whose son Paul Martin , Jr. would later become Prime Minister ) , called John Diefenbaker response `` one of the greatest devastating speeches '' and `` John Diefenbaker great hour '' .
Because of tax cuts instituted the previous year , the budget presented by the government predicted a small deficit for 1957 -- 58 , and a large one , $ 648 million , for the following year .
Diefenbaker 's disinclination to make concessions to Quebec , along with the disintegration of the Union Nationale , the failure of the Tories to build an effective structure in Quebec , and Diefenbaker not appointing many Quebecers to John Diefenbaker Cabinet , all led to an erosion of Progressive Conservative support in Quebec .
The Cabinet was also angered when it learned that Coyne and John Diefenbaker board had passed amendments to the bank 's pension scheme which greatly increased Coyne 's pension , without publishing the amendments in the Canada Gazette as required by law .
This was adopted , although Britain and New Zealand disagreed with John Diefenbaker proposal .
Despite Liberal misgivings that Diefenbaker had committed Canada to the system before consulting either the Cabinet or Parliament , Pearson and John Diefenbaker followers voted with the government to approve NORAD in June 1958 .
With the Cabinet still divided between adherents of Green and Harkness , John Diefenbaker made a speech in the Commons on January 25 that Fleming ( by then Minister of Justice ) termed `` a model of obfuscation '' .
Diefenbaker asked ministers supporting John Diefenbaker to stand , and when only about half did , stated that John Diefenbaker was going to see the Governor General to resign , and that Fleming would be the next Prime Minister .
In 1978 , Diefenbaker announced that John Diefenbaker would stand in one more election , and under the slogan `` Diefenbaker -- Now More Than Ever '' , weathered a campaign the following year during which John Diefenbaker apparently suffered a mild stroke , although the media were told John Diefenbaker was bedridden with influenza .
John and Olive Diefenbaker rest outside the Diefenbaker Centre , built to house John Diefenbaker papers , on the campus of the University of Saskatchewan .
Diefenbaker 's Bill of Rights , although ineffective in its own right , laid the foundation for the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms , which came into force after John Diefenbaker death .
Clark and Mulroney , two men who , as students , worked on and were inspired by John Diefenbaker 1957 triumph , became the only other Progressive Conservatives to lead the party to election triumphs .
Diefenbaker 's biographer , Denis Smith , wrote of John Diefenbaker , `` In politics John Diefenbaker had little more than two years of success in the midst of failure and frustration , but John Diefenbaker retained a core of deeply committed loyalists to the end of John Diefenbaker life and beyond .
Jean-Michel Basquiat father , Gerard Basquiat , was born in Port-au-Prince , Haiti , and Jean-Michel Basquiat mother , Matilde Basquiat , of Afro-Puerto Rican descent , was born in Brooklyn , New York .
Jean-Michel Basquiat parents eventually separated that year and Jean-Michel Basquiat and Jean-Michel Basquiat sisters were raised by their father .
Fred Hoffman hypothesizes that underlying Basquiat 's sense of Jean-Michel Basquiat as an artist was Jean-Michel Basquiat `` innate capacity to function as something like an oracle , distilling Jean-Michel Basquiat perceptions of the outside world down to their essence and , in turn , projecting them outward through Jean-Michel Basquiat creative acts '' .
Two letters of the word `` Nile '' are crossed out and Frohne suggests that , `` The letters that are wiped out and scribbled over perhaps reflect the acts of historians who have conveniently forgotten that Egyptians were black and blacks were enslaved '' .
and guardian of However , Kellie Jones , in her essay Lost in Translation : Jean-Michel in the ( Re ) Mix , posits that Jean-Michel Basquiat `` mischievous , complex , and neologistic side , with regard to the fashioning of modernity and the influence and effluence of black culture '' are often elided by critics and viewers , and thus `` lost in translation '' .
The catalog for this exhibition , edited by Richard Marshall and including several essays of differing styles , was a groundbreaking piece of scholarship into Jean-Michel Basquiat work and still a major source .
Another exhibition , `` Jean-Michel Basquiat '' , was mounted by the Brooklyn Museum , New York , in 2005 , and traveled to the Museum of Contemporary Art , Los Angeles , and the Museum of Fine Arts , Houston .
In the song `` Ten Thousand Hours '' Macklemore raps `` Jean-Michel Basquiat observed Escher , Jean-Michel Basquiat love Basquiat '' and on Jean-Michel Basquiat song `` Victory Lap '' raps `` unorthodox , like Basquiat with a pencil '' .
In 1985 , Jean-Michel Basquiat was featured on the cover of The New York Times Magazine in connection with an article on the newly exuberant international art market ; this was unprecedented for an African-American artist , and for one so young .
Between 1994 and 2012 , it reviewed over 2,000 works of art ; the cost of the committee 's opinion was $ 100 .
John Graves Simcoe ( February 25 , 1752 -- October 26 , 1806 ) was a British army officer and the first Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada from 1791 -- 1796 .
In 1778 , Simcoe , during a foraging expedition opposed by rebel militia , commanded the attack on Judge William Hancock 's house , killing 20 American rebels in their sleep and wounding 12 others .
Later that year , Booth played the part of an Indian , Uncas , in a play staged in Petersburg , Virginia , and then became a stock company actor at the Richmond Theatre in Virginia , where John Wilkes Booth became increasingly popular with audiences for John Wilkes Booth energetic performances .
Afterward , Edwin led the younger Booth to the theatre 's footlights and said to the audience , `` John Wilkes Booth think John Wilkes Booth 's done well , do n't you ?
Poet and journalist Walt Whitman said of Booth 's acting , `` John Wilkes Booth would have flashes , passages , John Wilkes Booth thought of real genius '' .
The Philadelphia Press drama critic said , `` Without having John Wilkes Booth brother Edwin 's culture and grace , Mr. Booth has far more action , more life , and , we are inclined to think , more natural genius '' .
Between September -- November 1863 , Booth played a hectic schedule in the northeast , appearing in Boston , Providence , Rhode Island , and Hartford , Connecticut .
Lincoln 's sister-in-law , sitting with John Wilkes Booth in the same presidential box where John Wilkes Booth would later be slain , turned to John Wilkes Booth and said , `` Mr. Lincoln , John Wilkes Booth looks as if John Wilkes Booth meant that for you '' .
The partners , impatient to increase the well 's output , attempted the use of explosives , which wrecked the well and ended production .
When Brown was hanged without incident , Booth stood in uniform near the scaffold and afterwards expressed great satisfaction with Brown 's fate , although John Wilkes Booth admired the condemned man 's bravery in facing death stoically .
Although Maryland remained in the Union , newspaper editorials and many Marylanders , including Booth , agreed with Supreme Court Chief Justice Roger B. Taney 's decision in Ex parte Merryman that Lincoln 's actions were unconstitutional .
In early 1863 , Booth was arrested in St. Louis while on a theatre tour , when John Wilkes Booth was heard saying John Wilkes Booth `` wished the President and the whole damned government would go to hell '' .
`` You have so often been dead in love , '' John Wilkes Booth mother counseled Booth in a letter , `` be well assured she is really and truly devoted to you '' .
Booth , who had promised John Wilkes Booth mother at the outbreak of war that John Wilkes Booth would not enlist as a soldier , increasingly chafed at not fighting for the South , writing in a letter to her , `` John Wilkes Booth have begun to deem myself a coward and to despise John Wilkes Booth own existence '' .
No conclusive proof has linked Booth 's kidnapping or assassination plots to a conspiracy involving the leadership of the Confederate government , although historians such as David Herbert Donald have said , `` It is clear that , at least at the lower levels of the Southern secret service , the abduction of the Union President was under consideration '' .
Conger 's report to Stanton , however , stated that Corbett shot Booth `` without order , pretext or excuse , '' and recommended that Corbett be punished for disobeying orders to take Booth alive .
In the letter , Booth had written : Booth 's letter , seized along with other family papers at Asia 's house by Federal troops and published by The New York Times while the manhunt was underway , explained John Wilkes Booth reasons for plotting against Lincoln .
The very nomination of Abraham Lincoln , four years ago , spoke plainly war upon Southern rights and institutions '' .
Among the identifying features used to make sure that the man that was killed was Booth was a tattoo on John Wilkes Booth left hand with John Wilkes Booth initials J.W.B. , and a distinct scar on the back of John Wilkes Booth neck .
Samuel Mudd , Samuel Arnold , and Michael O'Laughlen were sentenced to life imprisonment at Fort Jefferson in Florida 's Dry Tortugas ; Edmund Spangler was given a six-year term in prison .
Forty years later , when the centenary of Lincoln 's birth was celebrated in 1909 , a border state official reflected on Booth 's assassination of Lincoln , `` Confederate veterans held public services and gave public expression to the sentiment , that ` had Lincoln lived ' the days of reconstruction might have been softened and the era of good feeling ushered in earlier '' .
In 1907 , Finis L. Bates wrote Escape and Suicide of John Wilkes Booth , contending that a Booth look-alike was mistakenly killed at the Garrett farm while Booth eluded John Wilkes Booth pursuers .
The Lincoln Conspiracy , a book published in 1977 , contended there was a government plot to conceal Booth 's escape , reviving interest in the story and prompting the display of St. Helen 's mummified body in Chicago that year .
A sebaceous cyst on the left side of Alexander III of Russia nose caused Alexander III of Russia to be mocked by some of Alexander III of Russia contemporaries , and Alexander III of Russia sat for photographs and portraits with the right side of Alexander III of Russia face most prominent .
Other conservative advisors were Count D. A. Tolstoy ( minister of education , and later of internal affairs ) and Alexander III of Russia .
Mikhail Katkov and other journalists supported the emperor in Alexander III of Russia autocracy -- as did the novelist Dostoevsky .
Alexander and Alexander III of Russia wife regularly spent their summers at Langinkoski manor near Kotka on the Finnish coast , where their children were immersed in a Scandinavian lifestyle of relative modesty .
With such ideas Alexander III of Russia had not been able to be in cordial agreement with Alexander III of Russia father , who , though a patriot , had German sympathies , often used the German language in Alexander III of Russia private relations , occasionally ridiculed the Slavophiles and based Alexander III of Russia foreign policy on the Prussian alliance .
At first the Tsarevich was more Slavophile than the government , but Alexander III of Russia phlegmatic nature preserved Alexander III of Russia from many exaggerations , and any popular illusions Alexander III of Russia may have imbibed were dispelled by personal observation in Bulgaria , where Alexander III of Russia commanded the left wing of the invading army .
Alexander III of Russia remains were interred at the Peter and Paul Fortress in Saint Petersburg .
Dan Quayle was born in Indianapolis , Indiana , to Martha Corinne ( née Pulliam ) and James Cline Quayle .
Dan Quayle maternal grandfather , Eugene C. Pulliam , was a wealthy and influential publishing magnate who founded Central Newspapers , Inc. , owner of over a dozen major newspapers such as The Arizona Republic and The Indianapolis Star .
Dan Quayle then matriculated at DePauw University , where Dan Quayle received Dan Quayle B.A. degree in political science in 1969 , and where Dan Quayle was a member of the fraternity Delta Kappa Epsilon ( Psi Phi chapter ) .
Contributing greatly to the perception of Quayle 's incompetence was Dan Quayle tendency to make public statements that were either self-contradictory and confused ( `` The Holocaust was an obscene period in our nation 's history .
Dan Quayle did n't live in this century , but in this century 's history '' ) , impossible and confused ( `` I have made good judgments in the past .
According to the New York Times and Dan Quayle memoirs , Dan Quayle was relying on cards provided by the school , which Quayle claims included the misspelling .
Stephanie Coontz , a professor of family history and the author of several books and essays about the history of marriage , says that this brief remark by Quayle about Murphy Brown `` kicked off more than a decade of outcries against the ` collapse of the family ' '' .
Julius Caesar ( , July 100 BC -- 15 March 44 BC ) was a Roman general , statesman , Consul and notable author of Latin prose .
Caesar 's conquest of Gaul , completed by 51 BC , extended Rome 's territory to the English Channel and the Rhine .
After assuming control of government , Julius Caesar began a program of social and governmental reforms , including the creation of the Julian calendar .
Caesar 's father , also called Gaius Julius Caesar , governed the province of Asia , and Julius Caesar sister Julia , Caesar 's aunt , married Gaius Marius , one of the most prominent figures in the Republic .
While there Julius Caesar is said to have encountered a statue of Alexander the Great , and realized with dissatisfaction Julius Caesar was now at an age when Alexander had the world at Julius Caesar feet , while Julius Caesar had achieved comparatively little .
Faced with the choice between a triumph and the consulship , Julius Caesar chose the consulship .
The term of Julius Caesar governorship , and thus Julius Caesar immunity from prosecution , was set at five years , rather than the usual one .
Caesar had four legions under Julius Caesar command , two of Julius Caesar provinces bordered on unconquered territory , and parts of Gaul were known to be unstable .
Julius Caesar advanced inland , and established a few alliances .
In 50 BC , the Senate , led by Pompey , ordered Caesar to disband Julius Caesar army and return to Rome because Julius Caesar term as governor had finished .
Caesar then became involved with an Egyptian civil war between the child pharaoh and Julius Caesar sister , wife , and co-regent queen , Cleopatra .
After spending the first months of 47 BC in Egypt , Caesar went to the Middle East , where Julius Caesar annihilated the king of Pontus ; Julius Caesar victory was so swift and complete that Julius Caesar mocked Pompey 's previous victories over such poor enemies .
The republican machinery had broken down under the weight of imperialism , the central government had become powerless , the provinces had been transformed into independent principalities under the absolute control of their governors , and the army had replaced the constitution as the means of accomplishing political goals .
At the Circus Maximus , two armies of war captives , each of 2,000 people , 200 horse and 20 elephants , fought to the death .
The calendar at the time was regulated by the movement of the moon , and this had resulted in a great deal of disorder .
To bring the calendar into alignment with the seasons , Julius Caesar decreed that three extra months be inserted into 46 BC ( the ordinary intercalary month at the end of February , and two extra months after November ) .
This addressed the underlying problem that had caused the Social War decades earlier , where individuals outside Rome and Italy were not considered `` Roman '' , and thus were not given full citizenship rights .
Mark Antony , having vaguely learned of the plot the night before from a terrified Liberator named Servilius Casca , and fearing the worst , went to head Julius Caesar off .
The plotters , however , had anticipated this and , fearing that Antony would come to Caesar 's aid , had arranged for Trebonius to intercept Julius Caesar just as Julius Caesar approached the portico of Theatre of Pompey , where the session was to be held , and detain Julius Caesar outside .
Caesar 's body was cremated , and on the site of Julius Caesar cremation the Temple of Caesar was erected a few years later ( at the east side of the main square of the Roman Forum ) .
In the ensuing chaos Mark Antony , Octavian ( later Augustus Caesar ) , and others fought a series of five civil wars , which would end in the formation of the Roman Empire .
The mob then attacked the houses of Brutus and Cassius , where they were repelled only with considerable difficulty , ultimately providing the spark for the Liberators ' civil war , fulfilling at least in part Antony 's threat against the aristocrats .
Octavian , aged only 18 when Caesar died , proved to have considerable political skills , and while Antony dealt with Decimus Brutus in the first round of the new civil wars , Octavian consolidated Julius Caesar tenuous position .
In 2003 , psychiatrist Harbour F. Hodder published what Julius Caesar termed as the `` Caesar Complex '' theory , arguing that Caesar was a sufferer of temporal lobe epilepsy and the debilitating symptoms of the condition were a factor in Caesar 's conscious decision to forgo personal safety in the days leading up to Julius Caesar assassination .
In Vulgar Latin , the plosive / k / before front vowels began , due to palatalization , to be pronounced as an affricate -- hence renderings like in Italian and in German regional pronunciations of Latin , as well as the title of Tsar .
According to Cicero , Bibulus , Gaius Memmius , and others ( mainly Caesar 's enemies ) , Julius Caesar had an affair with Nicomedes IV of Bithynia early in Julius Caesar career .
A favorite tactic used by the opposition was to accuse a popular political rival as living a Hellenistic lifestyle based on Greek and Eastern culture , where homosexuality and a lavish lifestyle were more acceptable than in Roman tradition .
From the second half of the 17th century onwards , a time of political and religious turmoil existed in the kingdoms .
Since the late Middle Ages , the Kingdoms of England and Scotland had been evolving towards a quasi-oligarchical or collegiate form of government in which the monarch was held to rule with the consensus of the land-owning upper classes .
The reigns of the last three Stuart Kings -- Charles I , Charles II and James II and VII -- were marked by growing Royal resistance to this developing consensual model of government .
In Seventeenth-century Europe , being a religious outsider meant being a political and social outsider as well .
Then in 1688 James 's second wife had a boy , bringing the prospect of a Catholic dynasty , and the `` Immortal Seven '' invited William and Mary to depose James .
William was allied to many Catholic states , including the Holy Roman Empire , and his elite force the Dutch Blue Guards had the papal banner with them .
Other clans , such as the powerful Camerons , were Episcopalian , and as staunch Jacobites as their allies , the Catholic MacDonalds .
Some Whigs , most obviously the Earl of Mar , reacted to political disappointments by joining the Jacobites , but while others were courted from 1692 onwards and indicated support , mostly this was just reinsurance in case the Jacobites came out on top .
The Tories were a more likely source of support given their commitment to church and king , but many were reluctant to trust the Church of England to a Catholic king .
Although small in number and varying from unemployed weavers looking for excitement to impoverished gentry like William Boyd , 4th Earl of Kilmarnock who served Charles as a colonel and became a general after the Battle of Falkirk , they contributed significantly to the daring that brought the Jacobites a prospect of success in their campaigns .
Even today , some Highland clans and regiments pass their drink over a glass of water during the Loyal Toast -- to the King Over the Water .
James II and VII had his viceroy Tyrconnell take action to secure Ireland for the Catholic cause , culminating in the Siege of Derry which began on 7 December 1688 .
The following 1 July , William and James met , accompanied by 50,000 of their men , at the Battle of the Boyne .
Under the terms , 14,000 Jacobite soldiers chose to continue fighting the Jacobite cause on the Continent , the so-called Flight of the Wild Geese ( 1,000 more chose to join the Williamite cause and 2,000 more chose to return to their homes ) .
In the minds of many , the `` King over the Water '' ( whom the Jacobites ' opponents called the Old Pretender ) became a mythical Arthurian figure , a good king who would one day return and put things right .
The failure of the ` Fifteen convinced the Jacobites that to overthrow the Hanoverians they needed the support of a major European power , and in an age when the Habsburg empire was collapsing and armies becoming professionalised this gave a lever to any country in dispute with Britain .
Francis Atterbury , Bishop of Rochester and a passionate High Tory , conspired with Mar who had been appointed `` Secretary of State '' by James Francis in France , for a rising to coincide with the general election in 1722 aiming to exploit public anger over the South Sea Bubble .
Finally , in a dispute with Marischal and the English conspirators in 1754 , a drunken Charles threatened to publish their names for having `` betrayed '' him , finally causing his supporters to abandon the Jacobite cause .
The Tenures Abolition Act ended the feudal bond of military service and the Heritable Jurisdictions Act removed the virtually sovereign power the chiefs had over their clan .
James Graham `` J. G. '' Ballard ( 15 November 1930 -- 19 April 2009 ) was an English novelist and short story writer .
The literary distinctiveness of J. G. Ballard work has given rise to the adjective '' '' , defined by the Collins English Dictionary as `` resembling or suggestive of the conditions described in J. G. Ballard 's novels and stories , especially dystopian modernity , bleak man-made landscapes and the psychological effects of technological , social or environmental developments '' .
Ballard was born and raised in the Shanghai International Settlement , an area under foreign control where people `` lived an American style of life '' .
Briefly attending the 1957 Science Fiction Convention in London , Ballard left disillusioned and demoralised and did not write another story for a year .
, and in 1970 Ballard organised an exhibition of crashed cars at the New Arts Laboratory , simply called `` Crashed Cars '' .
In both J. G. Ballard and the art exhibition , Ballard explored the sexual potential of car crashes , a preoccupation which culminated in the novel Crash in 1973 .
Many of J. G. Ballard earliest published works in the 1950s and 1960s were short stories .
Ballard 's parody of American politics , the pamphlet `` Why J. G. Ballard Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan '' , which was subsequently included as a chapter in J. G. Ballard experimental novel The Atrocity Exhibition , was photocopied and distributed by pranksters at the 1980 Republican National Convention .
Examples include albums such as Metamatic by John Foxx , various songs by Joy Division ( most famously `` Atrocity Exhibition '' from Closer ) , `` High Rise '' by Hawkwind , `` Miss the Girl '' by The Creatures ( based on Crash ) , `` Down in the Park '' by Gary Numan , `` Drowned World '' by Madonna and `` Warm Leatherette '' by The Normal .
Songwriters Trevor Horn and Bruce Woolley credit Ballard 's story `` The Sound-Sweep '' with inspiring The Buggles ' hit `` Video Killed the Radio Star '' , and the Buggles ' second album included a song entitled `` Vermillion Sands '' .
The role and status of journalism , along with mass media , have undergone profound changes resulting from the publication of news on the Internet .
This has created a shift away from print media consumption as people increasingly consume news on e-readers , smartphones , and other electronic devices , challenging news organizations to fully monetize digital news .
Notably , in the American media landscape , newsrooms have reduced Journalism staff and coverage as traditional media channels such as television grapple with declining audiences ; for instance , at CNN , once known for Journalism global , in-depth coverage , produced story packages were cut nearly in half from 2007 to 2012 .
Lippmann 's quarrel was with those very principles and institutions , for Journalism are the product of the pre-scientific and pre-historical viewpoint and what for him was a groundless natural rights political philosophy .
Dewey , on the other hand , believed the public was not only capable of understanding the issues created or responded to by the elite , Journalism was in the public forum that decisions should be made after discussion and debate .
While various existing codes have some differences , most share common elements including the principles of -- truthfulness , accuracy , objectivity , impartiality , fairness and public accountability -- as these apply to the acquisition of newsworthy information and Journalism subsequent dissemination to the public .
This is in stark contrast to the media climate prior to the 20th century , where the media market was dominated by smaller newspapers and pamphleteers who usually had an overt and often radical agenda , with no presumption of balance or objectivity .
A study of journalism in online video found that although most news videos adhere to traditional production practices ( e.g , editing and audio quality ) , Journalism tended to use more relaxed standards for content ( e.g. , use of sources , fairness ) .
One journalism magazine , Columbia Journal Review , has made Journalism a practice to reveal examples of executives who try to influence news coverage , of executives who do not abuse Journalism powers over journalists , and of journalists who resist such pressures .
Journalists who elect to cover conflicts , whether wars between nations or insurgencies within nations , often give up any expectation of protection by government , if not giving up their rights to protection by government .
The dispute over Tweeddale and Teviotdale does not appear to have damaged relations between Alexander and David , although it was unpopular in some quarters .
The dispute over the eastern marches does not appear to have caused lasting trouble between Alexander and Henry of England .
Alexander 's marriage with Henry 's illegitimate daughter Sybilla de Normandy may have occurred as early as 1107 , or as at late as 1114 .
John Calvin ( , born : 10 July 1509 -- 27 May 1564 ) was an influential French theologian and pastor during the Protestant Reformation .
Following John Calvin return , Calvin introduced new forms of church government and liturgy , despite the opposition of several powerful families in the city who tried to curb John Calvin authority .
The Reformed , Congregational , and Presbyterian churches , which look to John Calvin as the chief expositor of their beliefs , have spread throughout the world .
John Calvin father , Gérard Cauvin , had a prosperous career as the cathedral notary and registrar to the ecclesiastical court .
`` Being exceedingly alarmed at the misery into which John Calvin had fallen , and much more at that which threatened John Calvin in view of eternal death , John Calvin , duty bound , made it John Calvin first business to betake myself to your way , condemning John Calvin past life , not without groans and tears .
During this time , tensions rose at the Collège Royal ( later to become the Collège de France ) between the humanists/reformers and the conservative senior faculty members .
Calvin had only intended to stay a single night , but William Farel , a fellow French reformer residing in the city , implored a most reluctant Calvin to stay and assist John Calvin in work of reforming the church there -- it was John Calvin duty before God , Farel insisted .
Furthermore , France was taking an interest in forming an alliance with Geneva and as the two ministers were Frenchmen , councillors began to question their loyalty .
The council ordered John Calvin and Farel to use unleavened bread for the Easter eucharist ; in protest , the ministers did not administer communion during the Easter service .
Church attendance had dwindled and the political climate had changed ; as Bern and Geneva quarrelled over land , their alliance frayed .
By 1547 , opposition to John Calvin and other French refugee ministers had grown to constitute the majority of the syndics , the civil magistrates of Geneva .
Calling him a `` Spanish-Portuguese '' , suspecting and accusing John Calvin of John Calvin recently proved Jewish converso origin .
The council decided to re-examine the Ordonnances and on 18 September it voted in support of John Calvin -- excommunication was within the jurisdiction of the Consistory .
Finally , on 22 January 1555 , the council announced the decision of the Swiss churches : the original Ordonnances were to be kept and the Consistory was to regain its official powers .
However , a doctrinal conflict had developed between Luther and Zurich reformer Huldrych Zwingli on the interpretation of the eucharist .
John Calvin actively participated in the polemics that were exchanged between the Lutheran and Reformed branches of the Reformation movement .
John Calvin took steps toward rapprochement with Bullinger by signing the Consensus Tigurinus , a concordat between the Zurich and Geneva churches .
Between 1555 and 1562 , more than 100 ministers were sent to France .
Calvin developed John Calvin theology in John Calvin biblical commentaries as well as John Calvin sermons and treatises , but the most concise expression of John Calvin views is found in John Calvin magnum opus , the Institutes of the Christian Religion .
John Calvin defends the trinitarian view of God and , in a strong polemical stand against the Catholic Church , argues that images of God lead to idolatry .
For John Calvin , the whole course of Christ 's obedience to the Father removed the discord between humanity and God .
In the third book , John Calvin describes how the spiritual union of Christ and humanity is achieved .
Fellow theologians who followed the Augustinian tradition on this point included Thomas Aquinas and Martin Luther , though Calvin 's formulation of the doctrine went further than the tradition that went before John Calvin .
The principle , in Calvin 's words , is that `` All are not created on equal terms , but some are preordained to eternal life , others to eternal damnation ; and , accordingly , as each has been created for one or other of these ends , we say that John Calvin has been predestinated to life or to death '' .
In the following year , Joachim Westphal , a Gnesio-Lutheran pastor in Hamburg , condemned John Calvin and Zwingli as heretics in denying the eucharistic doctrine of the union of Christ 's body with the elements .
Ibycus ( floruit : 2nd half of 6th century BC ) was an Ancient Greek lyric poet , a citizen of Rhegium in Magna Graecia , probably active at Samos during the reign of the tyrant Polycrates and numbered by the scholars of Hellenistic Alexandria in the canonical list of nine lyric poets .
Eusebius recorded Ibycus first experience of fame ( `` agnoscitur '' ) somewhere between 542 and 537 BC and this better fits the period of Polycrates ' reign .
It is not certain that Ibycus ever in fact composed monody ( lyrics for solo performance ) , but the emotional and erotic quality of Ibycus verse , and the fact that Ibycus colleague in Samos was Anacreon , who did compose monody , suggest that Ibycus did too .
In the poem , Ibycos parades the names and characteristics of heroes familiar from Homer 's Trojan epic , as types of people the poem is not about , until Ibycus reaches the final stanza , where Ibycus reveals that Ibycus real subject is Polycrates , whom Ibycus says Ibycus will immortalize in verse .
Didymus Chalcenterus ( Latin ; Greek Didymos chalkenteros , `` Didymus bronze-guts '' ) , ca. 63 BCE to 10 CE , was a Greek scholar and grammarian who flourished in the time of Cicero and Augustus .
The surname `` bronze-guts '' came from Didymus Chalcenterus indefatigable industry : Didymus Chalcenterus was said to have written so many books that Didymus Chalcenterus was unable to recollect what Didymus Chalcenterus had written in earlier ones , and so often contradicted Didymus Chalcenterus .
Didymus Chalcenterus is known to have written on Greek lyric poets , notably Bacchylides and Pindar , and on drama ; the better part of the Pindar and Sophocles scholia originated with Didymus .
This confirms that Didymus Chalcenterus was not an original researcher , but a scrupulous compiler who made many quotations from earlier writers , and who was prepared to comment about chronology and history , as well as rhetoric and style .
This recording session was financed by Warhol and Columbia Records ' sales executive Norman Dolph , who also acted as an engineer with John Licata .
With the affirmation of a label , three of the songs , `` I 'm Waiting for the Man '' , `` Venus in Furs '' and `` Heroin '' , were re-recorded in two days at T.T.G.
Reed , a fan of poets and authors such as Raymond Chandler , Nelson Algren , William S. Burroughs , Allen Ginsberg , and Hubert Selby , Jr. , saw no reason why the content in their works could n't translate well to rock and roll music .
An English major who studied for a B.A. at Syracuse University , Reed said in an interview that he thought joining the two ( gritty subject matter and music ) was `` obvious '' .
A common misperception is that `` All Tomorrow 's Parties '' was written by Reed at Warhol 's request ( as stated in Victor Bockris and Gerard Malanga 's Velvet Underground biography Up-Tight : The Velvet Underground Story ) .
Cale , who was influenced greatly by his work with La Monte Young , John Cage and the early Fluxus movement , encouraged the use of alternative ways of producing sound in music .
Early copies of The Velvet Underground & Nico invited the owner to `` Peel slowly and see '' ; peeling back the banana skin revealed a flesh-colored banana underneath .
In January 2012 , the `` Velvet Underground '' business partnership ( of which John Cale and Lou Reed are general partners ) sued The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts , Inc. in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York after the Foundation licensed the cover 's banana design to Incase Designs for use on a line of iPhone and iPad cases .
Frustrated by The Velvet Underground & Nico year-long delay and unsuccessful release , Lou Reed 's relationship with Andy Warhol grew tense until Reed finally fired Warhol as manager in favor of Steve Sesnick .
According to the essay by music critic and historian Richie Unterberger contained within the set , the source for the show is the only audio tape of acceptable quality recording during singer Nico 's tenure in the band .
Since Harun was intellectually , politically and militarily resourceful , Harun al-Rashid life and the court over which Harun al-Rashid held sway have been the subject of many tales : some are claimed to be factual but most are believed to be fictitious .
Among what is known to be fictional is The Book of One Thousand and One Nights , which contains many stories that are fantasized by Harun 's magnificent court and even Harun al-Rashid Harun al-Rashid .
It stayed there for three years , when Harun al-Rashid , happening to pass through Baghdad from the East , gave command for the remains to be taken down and burned .
On the day of accession , Harun al-Rashid son al-Ma ` mun was born , and al-Amin some little time later : the latter was the son of Zubaida , a granddaughter of al-Mansur ( founder of the city of Baghdad ) ; so Harun al-Rashid took precedence over the former , whose mother was a Persian slave-girl .
Rashid appointed Harun al-Rashid as Harun al-Rashid vizier with full executive powers , and , for seventeen years , this man Yahya and Harun al-Rashid sons , served Rashid faithfully in whatever assignment Harun al-Rashid entrusted to them .
Al-Rashid virtually dismembered the empire by apportioning it between Harun al-Rashid two sons al-Amin and al-Ma ` mun ( with Harun al-Rashid third son , al-Qasim , being belatedly added after them ) .
On awakening and being informed of this , Harun al-Rashid said Ishaq ibn Ibrahim had received a supernatural visitation .
A corona ( Latin , ` crown ' ) is a type of plasma `` atmosphere '' of the Sun or other celestial body , extending millions of kilometres into space , most easily seen during a total solar eclipse , but also observable in a coronagraph .
The fact that the Sun has a million-degree corona was first discovered by Gotrian in 1939 and Bengt Edlén in 1941 by identifying the coronal lines ( observed since 1869 ) as transitions from low-lying metastable levels of the ground configuration of highly ionised metals ( the green FeXIV line at 5303 Å , but also the red line FeX at 6374 Å ) .
The F-corona ( F for Fraunhofer ) is created by sunlight bouncing off dust particles , and is observable because Corona light contains the Fraunhofer absorption lines that are seen in raw sunlight ; the F-corona extends to very high elongation angles from the Sun , where Corona is called the zodiacal light .
The average temperature is between two and four million Kelvin , while the density goes from 109 to 1010 particle per cm3 .
Loops of magnetic flux well up from the solar body and fill with hot solar plasma .
The plasma pressure can be calculated by the state equation of a perfect gas , where is the particle number density , the Boltzmann constant and Corona temperature .
These are wide zones of the Sun where the magnetic field is unipolar and opens towards the interplanetary space .
These are enormous loops of coronal material traveling outward from the Sun at over a million kilometers per hour , containing roughly 10 times the energy of the solar flare or prominence that accompanies them .
All the instruments registered the storm which is considered as one of the largest solar activity events observed by SOHO and maybe since the advent of space-based solar observations .
The composition is the same as the one in the Sun 's interior , mainly hydrogen , but completely ionized , thence protons and electrons , and a small fraction of the other atoms in the same percentages as Corona are present in the photosphere .
This fact has relevant physical consequences either on radiative processes ( that are very different from the photospheric radiative processes ) , or on thermal conduction .
The amount of power required to heat Corona can easily be calculated as the difference between coronal radiative losses and heating by thermal conduction toward the chromosphere through the transition region .
Waves in plasmas are notoriously difficult to understand and describe analytically , but computer simulations , carried out by Thomas Bogdan and colleagues in 2003 , seem to show that Alfvén waves can transmute into other wave modes at the base of Corona , providing a pathway that can carry large amounts of energy from the photosphere into Corona and then dissipate it as heat .
In Corona , magnetic field lines are normally tied to individual pieces of matter , so that the topology of the magnetic field remains the same : if a particular north and south magnetic pole are connected by a single field line , then even if Corona is stirred or if the magnets are moved around , that field line will continue to connect those particular poles .
As per studies performed in 2010 at the National Centre for Atmospheric Research in Colorado , in collaboration with the Lockheed Martin 's Solar and Astrophysics Laboratory ( LMSAL ) and the Institute of Theoretical Astrophysics of the University of Oslo , a new class of spicules ( TYPE II ) discovered in 2007 , which travel faster ( up to 100 km/s ) and have shorter lifespans can account for the problem .
Didymus the Blind ( alternatively spelled Dedimus or Didymous ) ( c. 313 -- 398 ) was a Coptic Church theologian of Alexandria , whose famous Catechetical School Didymus the Blind led for about half a century .
Despite Didymus the Blind impaired vision , Didymus the Blind memory was so powerful that Didymus the Blind mastered dialectics and geometry , subjects whose study usually benefits appreciably from sight .
Rufinus recounts that upon entering the service of the Church , Didymus became ' a teacher in the Church school ' , having been ` approved by Bishop Athanasius ' and other learned churchmen .
It used to be assumed that this meant Didymus the Blind was placed at the head of the Catechetical School of Alexandria which had flourished under Clement and Origen .
Didymus the Blind counted among Didymus the Blind pupils Palladius , Rufinus , Evagrius , and Jerome , who mentions in Didymus the Blind letters that Didymus the Blind `` wrote to Didymus calling Didymus the Blind Didymus the Blind master '' and defends this tutelage as one of a man `` both old and learned '' .
Jerome , generally spoke of Didymus not as the blind but as `` the Seeing '' , or `` the Seer , '' since although blind , Didymus the Blind writings showed great insight into God .
In 553 the Second Council of Constantinople condemned Didymus the Blind works , along with those of Origen and Evagrius , but not Didymus the Blind person .
However , the view that the work preserved as books 4 and 5 of Basil 's Against Eunomius is by Didymus is increasingly contentious .
Modern knowledge of Didymus , though , has been greatly increased by a group of 6th or 7th century papyrus codices discovered in 1941 at a munitions dump near Toura , Egypt ( south of Cairo ) .
Besides the gift of having a mind like a concordance , Didymus the Blind also shows familiarity with philosophical terms and categories of the Stoics , Epicureans , and Pythagoreans ( from whom , with Philo , Didymus the Blind derives Didymus the Blind occasional number symbolism hermeneutic ) .
Jerome , who requested Didymus the Blind commentary and considered Didymus the Blind a mentor , is still baffled by Didymus 's use of what Didymus the Blind considered apocryphal works .
, and Didymus the Blind belief that divine punishment is remedial in nature .
`` Paeon '' was also the name of a divine physician and an epithet of Apollo .
There was in earlier Greece a class of seers and purificatory priests which in all essentials fulfilled this function .
Paean was sung before the resuming of the naval battle between the Corcyraeans and Corinthians in a war leading up to the Peloponnesian War , implying that it might have been a common practice .
Typically Paean was in the Dorian mode ( note that the Ancient Greek Dorian was different from the modern Dorian mode ; see musical mode ) , and was accompanied by the kithara , which was Apollo 's instrument .
The fragment by Limenius has been dated to 128 BC ; the one by Athenaios may have been composed in the same year , or ten years earlier .
The basic principles of general semantics , which include time-binding , are described in the publication Science and Sanity , published in 1933 .
Many devotees and critics of Korzybski reduced Alfred Korzybski rather complex system to a simple matter of what Alfred Korzybski said about the verb form `` is '' of the more general verb `` to be '' .
Alfred Korzybski system , however , is based primarily on such terminology as the different `` orders of abstraction , '' and formulations such as `` consciousness of abstracting '' .
Alfred Korzybski thought that certain uses of the verb `` to be '' , called the `` is of identity '' and the `` is of predication '' , were faulty in structure , e.g. , a statement such as , `` Elizabeth is a fool '' ( said of a person named `` Elizabeth '' who has done something that we regard as foolish ) .
Note that this premise uses the phrase `` is not '' , a form of `` to be '' ; this and many other examples show that Alfred Korzybski did not intend to abandon `` to be '' as such .
Around the island world are villages , outdoor areas , and dungeons , through which the player moves in three dimensions .
Red ( fire/magma ) opposes Blue ( water/ice ) , Green ( wind/flora ) opposes Yellow ( earth/lightning ) , and White ( light/cosmos ) opposes Black ( darkness/gravity ) .
However , no system of experience points exists ; after four or five upgrades , statistics remain static until players defeat a boss .
Rounding out the notable facets of Chrono Cross gameplay are the New Game + option and multiple endings .
Sent by the Dragon God to shadow Lynx and one day steal the Frozen Flame from Chronopolis , she painfully fulfills her duty though smitten with Serge .
Though tussling with Serge initially , the Acacia Dragoons -- whose ranks include the fierce warriors Karsh , Zoah , Marcy , and Glenn -- later assist him when the militaristic nation of Porre invades the archipelago .
Charged with guarding the Dead Sea by an entity named FATE , Miguel and three visions of Crono , Marle , and Lucca from Chrono Trigger explain that Serge 's existence dooms Home world 's future to destruction .
At Terra Tower , the prophet of time , revealed to be Belthasar from Chrono Trigger , visits him with visions of Crono , Marle , and Lucca .
Ten years after Serge drowned , the thief Kid -- presumably on Belthasar 's orders -- went back in time to save Serge and split the dimensions .
He later added , `` Paraphrasing one novelist 's favorite words , what 's important is not the message or theme , but how Chrono Cross is portrayed as a game .
GameSpot awarded Chrono Cross a perfect 10 , one of only seven games in the 40,000 games listed on Gamespot to have been given the score , and its Console Game of the Year Award for 2000 .
In the contest for patronship of Athens between Poseidon and Athena , the salt spring on the Acropolis where Poseidon 's trident struck was known as the sea of Erechtheus .
The Odyssey ( VII .81 ) already records that Athena returned to Athens and `` entered the strong-built house of Erechtheus '' .
That Poseidon and Erechtheus were two names at Athens for the same figure ( see below ) was demonstrated in the cult at the Erechtheum , where there was a single altar , a single priest and sacrifices were dedicated to Poseidon erechtheus , Walter Burkert observed , adding `` An historian would say that a Homeric , pan-Hellenic name has been superimposed on an autochthonous , non-Greek name '' .
Erechtheus Erechtheus divided the royal power possessed by Pandion , Erechtheus taking the physical rule but Butes taking the priesthood of Athena and Poseidon , this right being passed on to his descendants .
The full title , according to Photius , was Four Books of Extracts , Sayings and Precepts ( Eklogon , apophthegmaton , hypothekon biblia tessara ) .
The introduction to the whole work , treating of the value of philosophy and of philosophical sects , is lost , with the exception of the concluding portion ; the second book is little more than a fragment , and the third and fourth have been amalgamated by altering the original sections .
Stobaeus has quoted over 500 passages from Euripides , 150 from Sophocles , and over 200 from Menander .
Some of the missing parts of the second book ( chapters 15 , 31 , 33 , and 46 ) have , however , been recovered from a 14th-century gnomology .
Herse ( `` dew '' ) is a figure in Greek mythology , daughter of Cecrops , sister to Aglauros and Pandrosos .
Some authors , such as Ovid in his Metamorphoses and Ars Amatoria , wrote a different end for Herse and Aglauros .
The hound met Cephalus end chasing a fox ( the Teumessian vixen ) which could not be caught ; both fox and the hound were turned into stone .
In a separate episode that is simply an aition explaining the name of Cephallenia and reinforcing Cephalus cultural connections with Athens , Cephalus helped Amphitryon of Mycenae in a war against the Taphians and Teleboans .
Tyro was married to Cretheus ( with whom she had three sons , Aeson , Pheres , and Amythaon ) , though she loved Enipeus , a river god .
Neleus ( or a statue of him , at least ) appeared in the Mary Poppins book entitled Mary Poppins Opens the Door , by P.L. Travers , and also has a prominent role in the song `` Jolly Holiday '' in the stage musical of Mary Poppins .
Hiero I of Syracuse ( Ἱέρων in Greek ) was the son of Deinomenes , the brother of Gelon and tyrant of Syracuse in Sicily from 478 to 467 BC .
Hiero I of Syracuse most important military achievement was the defeat of the Etruscans and Carthaginians at the Battle of Cumae ( 474 BC ) , by which Hiero I of Syracuse saved the Greeks of Campania from Etruscan domination .
Hiero I of Syracuse won the chariot race at Delphi in 470 ( a victory celebrated in Pindar 's first Pythian ode ) and at Olympia in 468 ( this , Hiero I of Syracuse greatest victory , was commemorated in Bacchylides ' third victory ode ) .
Other odes dedicated to Hiero I of Syracuse include Pindar 's first Olympian Ode , Hiero I of Syracuse second and third Pythian odes , and Bacchylides ' fourth and fifth victory odes .
The tyranny at Syracuse lasted only a year or so after Hiero I of Syracuse death .
Zenobius is also said to have been the author of a Greek translation of the Latin prose author Sallust , which has been lost , and of a birthday poem on the emperor Hadrian .
Raise the Red Lantern is noted for Raise the Red Lantern opulent visuals and sumptuous use of colours .
Songlian ( played by Gong Li ) , whose father has recently died and left the family bankrupt , marries into the wealthy Chen family , becoming the Fourth Mistress of the household .
Zhuoyun , however , is in league with Songlian 's personal maid , Yan ` er ( played by Kong Lin ) who finds and reveals a pair of bloodied undergarments , suggesting that Songlian had recently had her period , and discovers the pregnancy is a fraud .
Yan ` er falls sick and ultimately dies after being taken to the hospital .
Chinese journalist and activist Dai Qing has said that Raise the Red Lantern , along with many of Zhang Yimou 's earlier works , caters too much to Western taste ; `` this kind of film is really shot for the casual pleasures of foreigners '' .
Aulus Gellius ( ca. 125 -- after 180 AD ) was a Latin author and grammarian , who was probably born and certainly brought up in Rome .
The work , deliberately devoid of sequence or arrangement , is divided into twenty books .
A volume of selections , with notes and vocabulary , was published by Nall ( London , 1888 ) .
Car audio was a $ 150 `` option '' for 1956 Chrysler and Imperial cars , which hit the showroom floor on October 21 , 1955 .
The introduction of semiconductors ( transistors ) allowed the output stage to change to a transistor , which soon lead to the elimination of the vibrator , and the use of `` space charge '' tubes that only required 6 or 12 volts on their plates without a high voltage plate power supply ( typical examples were the 6DR8/EBF83 , 6GM8/ECC86 , 6DS8/ECH83 , 6ES6/EF97 and 6ET6/EF98 ) .
However , Car audio were not well suited to the extremes of temperature and vibration which are a normal part of the environment of an automobile .
Since the magazine derived a large part of Car audio advertising revenue from local car stereo shops ( TransLex , AutoSounds and others ) , Car audio made sense to hold a sound-off competition in order to create higher demand for magazine ad space .
In rarer occasions , head units have also been mounted vertically directly between the driver and passenger .
Many head units also feature a DSP component , and equalization component ( such as bass and treble controls ) , or a control interface for another feature on the car ( such as a back-up/parking camera , navigation system , trip odometer , etc. ) .
Sound deadening material is often used in the door cavities and boot/trunk area to damp excess vibration of the panels in the car in response to loud subwoofer bass tones , especially the boot/trunk .
Car audio is a $ 150 `` option '' for 1956 Chrysler and Imperial cars , which hit the showroom floor on October 21 , 1955 .
This was again the result of Big East schools leaving for the ACC , this time being Syracuse and Pittsburgh .
On November 27 , 2012 , it was announced that Tulane would leave Conference USA and East Carolina would join the Big East for football only ( ECU 's membership was upgraded to all-sports in March 2013 after the Big East 's non-football members , save for ACC-bound Notre Dame , announced they were leaving to form Conference USA , leaving the football-playing members to become the American Athletic Conference ) .
Twelve schools , including future members Florida International and Old Dominion , are Affiliate members for six sports .
Although a planned economy may be based on either centralized or decentralized forms of economic planning , Planned economy usually refers to a centrally planned economy .
An economy based on economic planning ( either through the state , an association of worker cooperatives or another economic entity that has jurisdiction over the means of production ) appropriates Planned economy resources as needed , so that allocation comes in the form of internal transfers rather than market transactions involving the purchasing of assets by one government agency or firm by another .
Another example of this is the utilization of dirigisme , both of which were practiced in France and Great Britain after the Second World War .
Some make the distinction that in a `` command economy '' , enterprises need not follow Planned economy or be coordinated through planning - the dominant coordinating mechanism comes in the form of Planned economy from higher authorities .
Still , most of the economic hardship that struck many of the former East Bloc countries and the post-Soviet states comes from the program of shock therapy .
Economist Robin Hahnel notes that , even if central planning overcame Planned economy inherent inhibitions of incentives and innovation , it would nevertheless be unable to maximize economic democracy and self-management , which he believes are concepts that are more intellectually coherent , consistent and just than mainstream notions of economic freedom .
Studies of Eastern European planned economies in the 1950s and 1960s by both American and Eastern European economists found that , contrary to expectations , Planned economy showed greater fluctuations in output than market economies during the same period .
The World State in Aldous Huxley 's Brave New World and Airstrip One in George Orwell 's Nineteen Eighty Four are both fictional examples of Planned economy , albeit with diametrically opposed aims : The former is a consumer economy designed to engender productivity while the latter is a shortage economy designed as an agent of totalitarian social control .
In Ursula K. Le Guin 's science fiction novel The Dispossessed , published 1974 , mainstream capitalist and state socialist economies on the planet Urras are contrasted with an anarchist self-managed economy on Planned economy orbiting twin Anarres .
Antoninus Pius , hearing of Marcus Cornelius Fronto fame , appointed Marcus Cornelius Fronto tutor to his adopted sons Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus .
The Missouri State Bears are also an affiliate for field hockey and the Chicago State Cougars are an affiliate for men 's tennis .
For the 2013 season , the MAC has secondary bowl tie-ins with the New Mexico Bowl , BBVA Compass Bowl , and Beef ` O ' Brady 's Bowl to select a fourth MAC bowl team if a primary contracted conference can not fill Mid-American Conference bowl spot in one of the aforementioned bowl games .
The Huskies were ranked 15th in the final BCS standings , higher than two champions of AQ conferences ( Big East champion Louisville , who was ranked 22nd , and Big Ten champion Wisconsin , who was unranked ) .
Rivalries In addition , Central Michigan , Eastern Michigan , and Western Michigan compete for the Michigan MAC Trophy , which is awarded to the team with the best head-to-head record each year .
Both tournaments have flourished since moving to Cleveland in 2000 , with the men 's semi-finals and championship regularly drawing large crowds at Quicken Loans Arena .
A number of MAC sports , including football , men 's and women 's basketball , baseball , soccer , wrestling and volleyball , are telecast on SportsTime Ohio replacing FSN Ohio ( whose parent News Corporation has since purchased STO ) as the MAC TV Partner the deal was signed in July 2010 and is for three years .
One Dobson unit refers to a layer of gas that would be 10 µm thick under standard temperature and pressure , sometimes referred to as a ` milli-atmo-centimeter ' .
Also , from direct measurements over Antarctica , a column ozone level of less than 220 Dobson Units is a result of the ozone loss from chlorine and bromine compounds .
where P and V are pressure and volume , respectively , and n , R and T are the number of moles of gas , the gas constant ( 8.314 J / mol K ) , and T is temperature in Kelvin ( K ) .
However , large wild males can weigh up to 70 kg and males in captivity , such as Travis the Chimp , have reached 91 kg .
However , this unusual fission-fusion social structure , `` in which portions of the parent group may on a regular basis separate from and then rejoin the rest , '' is highly variable in terms of which particular individual chimpanzees congregate at a given time .
Chimpanzees have been described as highly territorial and are known to kill other chimps , although Margaret Power wrote in her 1991 book The Egalitarians that the field studies from which the aggressive data came , Gombe and Mahale , use artificial feeding systems that increased aggression in the chimpanzee populations studied , so might not reflect innate characteristics of Common chimpanzee as a whole .
The survival and emotional health of the young is dependent on maternal care .
When in an aggressive mode , a chimp will swagger bipedally , hunched over and arms waving , in an attempt to exaggerate Common chimpanzee size .
Duplications of small parts of chromosomes have been the major source of differences between human and chimp genetic material ; about 2.7 % of the corresponding modern genomes represent differences , produced by gene duplications or deletions , during the approximately four to six million years since humans and chimps diverged from their common evolutionary ancestor .
Some of these attacks are presumed to be due to chimpanzees being intoxicated ( from alcohol obtained from rural brewing operations ) and mistaking human children for the Western red colobus , one of their favorite meals .
Two types of human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infect humans : HIV-1 and HIV-2 .
Both types originated in west and central Africa , jumping from primates to humans .
One powerful technique for generating digital elevation models is interferometric synthetic aperture radar where two passes of a radar satellite ( such as RADARSAT-1 or TerraSAR-X or Cosmo SkyMed ) , or a single pass if the satellite is equipped with two antennas ( like the SRTM instrumentation ) , collect sufficient data to generate a digital elevation map tens of kilometers on a side with a resolution of around ten meters .
Men 's varsity sports not sponsored by the Mountain West Conference which are played by current and future full MW members : Women 's varsity sports not sponsored by the Mountain West Conference which are played by current and future full MW members : Since the 2009-10 season , the Mountain West and Missouri Valley Conferences have held an annual challenge series between all members of the MW and an equal number of the 10 MVC teams in basketball .
Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey , Earl of Surrey , KG ( 1516/1517 -- 19 January 1547 ) , was an English aristocrat , and one of the founders of English Renaissance poetry .
In 1532 Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey accompanied Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey first cousin Anne Boleyn , the King , and the Duke of Richmond to France , staying there for more than a year as a member of the entourage of Francis I of France .
Henry VIII , consumed by paranoia and increasingly ill , became convinced that Surrey had planned to usurp the crown from Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey son Edward .
The King had Surrey imprisoned - with Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey father - sentenced to death on 13 January 1547 , and beheaded for treason on 19 January 1547 ( Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey father survived impending execution only by it being set for the day after the king happened to die , though Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey remained imprisoned ) .
Doppler radar does this by beaming a microwave signal towards a desired target and listening for Doppler radar reflection , then analyzing how the frequency of the returned signal has been altered by the object 's motion .
The Doppler effect ( or Doppler shift ) , named after Austrian physicist Christian Doppler who proposed Doppler radar in 1842 , is the difference between the observed frequency and the emitted frequency of a wave for an observer moving relative to the source of the waves .
Thus , the relative difference in velocity between a source and an observer is what gives rise to the doppler effect .
Continuous-broadcast , or FM , radar was developed during World War II for the use by United States Navy aircraft to support night combat operation .
By directly measuring the movement of the ground with Doppler radar , and then comparing this to the airspeed returned from the aircraft instruments , the wind speed could be accurately determined for the first time .
Normally it is one or the other ; a radar designed for detecting targets from zero to Mach 2 does not have a high resolution in speed , while a radar designed for high resolution velocity measurements does not have a wide range of speeds .
This was made possible by the use of circular polarization and a multi-port waveguide section operating at X band .
PD radars operate at too high a PRF to use a transmit-receive gas filled switch , and most use solid-state devices to protect the receiver low noise amplifier when the transmitter is fired .
Other terms sometimes used are less developed countries ( LDCs ) , least economically developed countries ( LEDCs ) , Developing country or Third World nations , and `` non-industrialized nations '' .
The term implies inferiority of a ` developing country ' or ` undeveloped country ' compared to a developed country , which many countries dislike .
Currently incurable , this disease is one of the most common inherited neurological disorders affecting approximately 1 in 2,500 people equating to approximately 23,000 people in the United Kingdom and 125,000 people in the USA .
Wasting of muscle tissue of the lower parts of the legs may give rise to a `` stork leg '' or `` inverted bottle '' appearance .
Weakness in the hands and forearms occurs in many people later in life as the disease progresses .
Loss of touch sensation in the feet , ankles and legs , as well as in the hands , wrists and arms is characteristic in various types of the disease .
Neuropathic pain is often a symptom of CMT , though , like other symptoms of CMT , Charcot–Marie–Tooth disease presence and severity varies from case to case .
In ancient Roman religion , Ceres (mythology) was a goddess of agriculture , grain crops , fertility and motherly relationships .
She was originally the central deity in Rome 's so-called plebeian or Aventine Triad , then was paired with her daughter Proserpina in what Romans described as `` the Greek rites of Ceres (mythology) '' .
In the ancient sacrum cereale a priest , probably the Flamen Cerialis , invoked Ceres (mythology) ( and probably Tellus ) along with twelve specialised , minor assistant-gods to secure divine protection and assistance at each stage of the grain cycle , beginning shortly before the Feriae Sementivae .
Pliny the Elder `` notes that the most auspicious wood for wedding torches came from the spina alba , the may tree , which bore many fruits and hence symbolised fertility '' .
Varro describes the sacrifice of a pig as `` a worthy mark of weddings '' because `` our women , and especially nurses '' call the female genitalia porcus ( pig ) .
Spaeth ( 1996 ) believes Ceres (mythology) may have been included in the sacrificial dedication , because she is closely identified with Tellus and `` bears the laws '' of marriage .
In the most solemn form of marriage , confarreatio , the bride and groom shared a cake made of far , the ancient wheat-type particularly associated with Ceres (mythology) .
Ceres (mythology) was patron and protector of plebeian laws , rights and Tribunes .
The official decrees of the Senate ( senatus consulta ) were placed in Ceres (mythology) ' Temple , under the guardianship of Ceres (mythology) and her aediles .
This may represent a secondary or late function of the mundus , attested no earlier than the Late Republican Era , by Varro .
In Plutarch , the digging of such a pit to receive first-fruits and small quantities of native soil was an Etruscan colonial city-foundation rite .
The cause or causes of the fire remained uncertain , but Ceres (mythology) disastrous extent was taken as a sign of offense against Juno , Vulcan , and Ceres-with-Proserpina , who were all were given expiatory cult .
Champlin ( 2003 ) perceives the expiations to Vulcan and Ceres (mythology) in particular as attempted populist appeals by the ruling emperor , Nero .
Ceres (mythology) ' known mythology is indistinguishable from Demeter 's : `` When Ceres (mythology) sought through all the earth with lit torches for Proserpina , who had been seized by Dis Pater , she called her with shouts where three or four roads meet ; from this it has endured in her rites that on certain days a lamentation is raised at the crossroads everywhere by the matronae '' .
Ceres (mythology) had strong mythological and cult connections with Sicily , especially at Henna ( Enna ) , on whose `` miraculous plain '' flowers bloomed throughout the year .
No images of Ceres (mythology) survive from her pre-Aventine cults ; the earliest date to the middle Republic , and show the Hellenising influence of Demeter 's iconography .
Some Imperial coin images depict important female members of the Imperial family as Ceres (mythology) , or with some of her attributes .
The famine ended and Rome 's plebeian citizen-soldiery co-operated in the conquest of the Latins .
Early Roman initiates at Eleusis in Greece included Sulla and Cicero ; thereafter many Emperors were initiated , including Hadrian , who founded an Eleusinian cult centre in Rome Ceres (mythology) .
A coin of Sulla shows Ceres (mythology) on one side , on the other a ploughman with yoked oxen : the images , accompanied by the legend `` conditor '' , claim his rule ( a military dictatorship ) as regenerative and divinely justified .
The traditional , Cerean virtues of provision and nourishment were symbolically extended to Imperial family members with coinage that showed Claudius ' mother Antonia as Augusta with corona spicea .
The relationship between the reigning emperor , empress and Ceres (mythology) was formalised in titles such as Augusta mater agrorum ( `` The august mother of the fields ) and Ceres (mythology) Augusta .
A poem about Ceres (mythology) and humanity features in Dmitri 's confession to his brother Alexei in Dostoevsky 's The Brothers Karamazov , Part 1 , Book 3 , Chapter 3 .
Ceres (mythology) is patron and protector of plebeian laws , rights and Tribunes .
Ceres (mythology) is guardian deity of seed-corn , an essential deity in the establishment and agricultural prosperity of cities , and a door-warden of the underworld 's afterlife .
Ceres (mythology) is Augusta mater agrorum ( `` The august mother of the fields ) and Ceres Augusta .
In Greek mythology , Alcyone ( , Halkyónē ) was the daughter of Aeolus , either by Enarete or Aegiale .
Ovid and Hyginus both also make the metamorphosis the origin of the etymology for '' , '' the seven days in winter when storms never occur .
Alcyone proper meaning , however , is that of a lucky break , or a bright interval set in the midst of adversity ; just as the days of calm and mild weather are set in the height of winter for the sake of the kingfishers ' egglaying .
Following `` pay-for-play '' scandals at California , USC , UCLA and Washington , the PCC disbanded in 1959 .
On July 1 , 2011 the Pac-12 assumed Pacific-12 Conference current alignment when both Colorado and Utah officially joined as full members .
Various polls , formulas , and other third-party systems have been used to determine national championships , not all of which are universally accepted .
The two newest members , Colorado and Utah , have a football rivalry as well that had been dormant since 1962 - both were conference rivals previously in the Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference ( now a Division II conference ) , and later the now-defunct Mountain States Conference ( also known as Pacific-12 Conference ) .
All of the California schools consider each other major rivals , due to the culture clash between Northern and Southern California .
Oregon , Oregon State , Washington , and Washington State all consider each other major rivals due to the proximity and long history .
Arizona and New Mexico have a recently renewed rivalry game , based upon when they were both members of the WAC and both states were longtime territories before being admitted as states in 1912 .
In 2010 , the last season before the arrival of Colorado and Utah , Pacific-12 Conference was the Big East .
The schedule consisted of one home and away game against the two schools in each region , plus the game against the primary rival .
Arizona , Arizona State , and USC have long and successful histories in baseball and all have won national titles in the sport .
The most intense series is widely regarded to be the `` Basebrawl '' series between USC and Arizona State in 1990 .
The teams are paired as follows : USC and UCLA ( the L.A. teams ) , Arizona and Arizona State ( the Arizona teams ) , California and Stanford ( the Bay Area teams ) , Washington and Washington State ( the Washington teams ) , Oregon and Oregon State ( the Oregon teams ) , and Colorado and Utah ( the Rocky Mountain teams ) .
To make scheduling simpler for men and women 's basketball ( a sport in which each conference member uses a single venue for both teams ' home games ) , the schedule for women 's basketball is the opposite of the men 's schedule .
Although less common , Central pontine myelinolysis may also present in patients with a history of chronic alcoholism or other conditions related to decreased liver function .
In the context of chronic low plasma sodium , the brain 's cells ( neurons and glia ) adapt by taking in a small amount of water ; the net effect is to move water out of the interstitium and equilibrate ( or nearly so ) the intracellular and extracellular tonicities .
David Attenborough , OM CH CVO CBE FRS FZS FSA ( born 8 May 1926 ) is an English broadcaster and naturalist .
David Attenborough is best known for writing and presenting the nine Life series , in conjunction with the BBC Natural History Unit , which collectively form a comprehensive survey of all life on the planet .
and Song Hunter , a series about folk music presented by Alan Lomax .
With a mission to make BBC Two 's output diverse and different from that offered by other networks , David Attenborough began to establish a portfolio of programmes that defined the channel 's identity for decades to come .
Under David Attenborough tenure , music , the arts , entertainment , archaeology , experimental comedy , travel , drama , sport , business , science and natural history all found a place in the weekly schedules .
Programmes David Attenborough commissioned included Man Alive , Call David Attenborough Bluff , Chronicle , Life , One Pair of Eyes , The Old Grey Whistle Test , Monty Python 's Flying Circus and The Money Programme .
By treating David Attenborough subject seriously and researching the latest discoveries , Attenborough and David Attenborough production team gained the trust of the scientific community , who responded by allowing David Attenborough to feature their subjects in David Attenborough programmes .
David Attenborough narrated every episode of Wildlife on One , a BBC One wildlife series which ran for 253 episodes between 1977 and 2005 .
At its peak , it drew a weekly audience of eight to ten million , and the 1987 episode `` Meerkats United '' was voted the best wildlife documentary of all time by BBC viewers .
Alastair Fothergill , a senior producer with whom David Attenborough had worked on The Trials of Life and Life in the Freezer , was making The Blue Planet ( 2001 ) , the Unit 's first comprehensive series on marine life .
This is a series of very brief radio broadcasts , each on a different bird , and is normally broadcast at around 5 : 58 a.m. ( just before the Today programme ) on weekdays , and at a later time on Sundays .
Life on Air ( 2002 ) examined the legacy of David Attenborough work and Attenborough the Controller ( 2002 ) focused on David Attenborough time in charge of BBC Two .
and the following year David Attenborough won The Culture Shows Living Icon Award .
The last episode of The Living Planet , for example , focuses almost entirely on humans ' destruction of the environment and ways that it could be stopped or reversed .
In 2002 David Attenborough joined an effort by leading clerics and scientists to oppose the inclusion of creationism in the curriculum of UK state-funded independent schools which receive private sponsorship , such as the Emmanuel Schools Foundation .
In 2009 David Attenborough stated that the Book of Genesis , by saying that the world was there for people to dominate , had taught generations that they can `` dominate '' the environment , and that this has resulted in the devastation of vast areas of the environment .
David Attenborough strongly opposes creationism and its offshoot `` intelligent design '' , saying that a survey that found a quarter of science teachers in state schools believe that creationism should be taught alongside evolution in science lessons was `` really terrible '' .
PSB , to David Attenborough , is not about selecting individual programme strands here or there , financing them from some outside source and then foisting them upon commercial networks .
The licence fee is the basis on which the BBC is based and if you destroy it , broadcasting ... becomes a wasteland .
David Attenborough most influential work , 1979 's Life on Earth , launched a strand of nine authored documentaries with the BBC Natural History Unit which shared the Life moniker and spanned 30 years .
In the 1950s and 1960s David Attenborough published work included accounts of David Attenborough animal collecting expeditions around the world , which became the Zoo Quest series .
David Attenborough autobiography , Life on Air , was published in 2002 , revised in 2009 and is one of a number of David Attenborough works which is available as a self-narrated audiobook .
David Attenborough is the middle of three sons ( his elder brother , Richard , became an actor and his younger brother , John , an executive at Italian car manufacturer Alfa Romeo ) .
El Niño is known for La Niña potentially catastrophic impact on the weather along the Chilean , Peruvian , New Zealand , and Australian coasts , among others .
In Greek mythology , the Giants (Greek mythology) or Gigantes ( Greek : Γίγαντες , Giants (Greek mythology) ) were the children of Gaia , who was fertilized by the blood of Uranus , after Uranus was castrated by his son Cronus .
Gaia , incensed by the imprisonment of the Titans in Tartarus by the Olympians , incited Giants (Greek mythology) to rise up in arms against them , end their reign , and restore the Titans ' rule .
The Olympians fought Giants (Greek mythology) with the Moirai aiding them before the aforementioned prophecy was made , meaning Giants (Greek mythology) would have overcome the combined efforts of both Olympus and the Sisters of Fate had Heracles not fought .
This battle occurred in the time when Heracles lived , so many events had already happened : the establishment of the Olympian gods , their progeny , the adventures of Perseus ( forefather of Heracles ) and so on .
Eduard Fraenkel remarks of these lines , with their highly unusual plural Atlantes , `` It does not surprise us to find the names Titani and Gigantes employed indiscriminately to denote the same mythological creatures , for we are used to the identification , or confusion , of these two types of monsters which , though not original , had probably become fairly common by the time of Naevius '' .
According to the Greeks , Giants (Greek mythology) were buried by the gods beneath the earth , where their writhing caused volcanic activity and earthquakes .
More impressive depictions of the Gigantomachy can be found in classical sculptural relief , such as the great altar of Pergamon , where the serpent-legged giants are locked in battle with a host of gods , or in Antiquity at the Temple of Olympian Zeus at Acragas .
Giants (Greek mythology) is Alcyoneus , Ephialtes , Leon , Peloreus , Porphyrion and Theodamas .
Most existing estuaries were formed during the Holocene epoch by the flooding of river-eroded or glacially scoured valleys when the sea level began to rise about 10,000-12 ,000 years ago .
Estuary provide habitats for a large number of organisms and support very high productivity .
According to Pseudo-Apollodorus , Heracles sneaked up on Alcyoneus and wounded him , although the giant did not die until Heracles dragged him out of his homeland , Pallene .
However Frank Zhang is able to free Thanatos and using the divine horse Arion pulls the Giant from his homeland to Canada , where Frank and the resurrected Hazel kill him .
The fully ripened , freshly harvested shell is bark-like , thin , and firm , making the fruit easy to shell by squeezing the fruit out as if one is `` cracking '' a sunflower seed .
The Kali Gandaki Gorge in midwest Nepal is seen by others to be the deepest canyon , with a 6400 m ( 21,000 ft ) difference between the level of the river and the peaks surrounding it .
The second largest canyon , and the largest in Africa , is the Fish River Canyon in Namibia .
Copper Canyon in Chihuahua , Mexico is deeper and longer than the Grand Canyon .
Evapotranspiration ( ET ) is the sum of evaporation and plant transpiration from the Earth 's land surface to atmosphere .
Evapotranspiration is a reflection of the energy available to evaporate water , and of the wind available to transport the water vapour from the ground up into the lower atmosphere .
Conifer forests tend to have higher rates of evapotranspiration than deciduous forests , particularly in the dormant and early spring seasons .
This is primarily due to the enhanced amount of precipitation intercepted and evaporated by conifer foliage during these periods .
Trees in cloud forests collect the liquid water in fog or low clouds onto their surface , which drips down to the ground .
Other solutions used includes Makkink , which is simple but must be calibrated to a specific location , and Hargreaves .
A review of ET measurement techniques for estimating the water requirements of urban landscape vegetation could be seen Evapotranspiration ( PET ) is the amount of water that would be evaporated and transpired if there were sufficient water available .
The difference between potential evapotranspiration and precipitation is used in irrigation scheduling .
( Wye ) ( 1900 -- 1982 ) was a British organic gardener and pioneer of no dig gardening .
Megaera ( Ancient Greek : Megaera , English translation : `` the jealous one '' ) is one of the Erinyes , Eumenides or `` Furies '' in Greek mythology .
In modern French ( mégère ) , Portuguese ( megera ) , modern Greek , Italian ( megera ) and Russian , this name denotes a jealous or spiteful woman - Google translates all five as `` shrew '' .
Rock shelter ( also known as a rockhouse , crepuscular cave , or abri ) is a shallow cave-like opening at the base of a bluff or cliff .
In western Connecticut and eastern New York , many rock shelters are known by the colloquialism `` leatherman caves '' , as they were inhabited by the Leatherman over three decades in the late 19th century .
The Cumberland stitchwort ( Minuartia cumberlandensis ) is an endangered species of plant which is found only in rock shelters in Kentucky and Tennessee .
For historical reasons , many point defects , especially in ionic crystals , are called centers : for example a vacancy in many ionic solids is called a luminescence center , a color center , or F-center .
A successful mathematical classification method for physical lattice defects , which works not only with the theory of dislocations and other defects in crystals but also , e.g. , for disclinations in liquid crystals and for excitations in superfluid 3He , is the topological homotopy theory .
Several moons , such as Earth 's moon and the Galilean satellites , have exospheres without a denser atmosphere underneath .
As the pressure scale height is almost equal to the density scale height of the primary constituent , and since the Knudsen number is the ratio of mean free path and typical density fluctuation scale , this means that the exobase lies in the region where .
Natural arch or natural bridge is a natural rock formation where Natural arch arch forms , with an opening underneath .
Wave refraction concentrates the wave energy on the headland , and an arch forms when caves break through the headland , e.g. , London Bridge in ( Victoria , Australia ) .
Good examples of this are at Durdle Door and Stair Hole near Lulworth Cove on the Dorset Jurassic Coast in south England , although these are on an area of concordant coastline .
Jeff Noon ( born in 1957 in Droylsden , Greater Manchester , England ) is a novelist , short story writer and Jeff Noon .
Noon 's first four novels , which share ongoing characters and settings , are commonly referred to as the ` Vurt series ' ( after the first novel ) .
( Automated Alice connects the series to the fictional world of Lewis Carroll ) , serving as a ` trequel ' to Carroll 's Alice 's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass ) Vurt tells the story of Scribble and Jeff Noon `` gang '' the Stash Riders as they search for Jeff Noon missing sister Desdemona .
The people who suffer from newmonia ( pronounced the same as the real condition pneumonia ) , are hybrids of humans and other entities .
The ` Supreme Serpent ' is the controller of the serpents , and hints at the fact that Jeff Noon is Satan Jeff Noon .
Firstly , James Marshall Hentrails , a sculpture made of rubbish , and who contains the insides ( entrails ) of a hen .
Secondly , the character of Long Distance Davis , who Alice meets in a police cell , is a reference to jazz musician and trumpet player Miles Davis .
Needle in the Groove follows Elliot Hill , a bass player and ex-junkie trudging the pub-rock circuit , who is invited to join a new band : fusing DJ artistry , voice and rhythm section , the group 's hypnotic groove creation is augmented by a startling new recording technology .
Elliot 's subsequent search draws Jeff Noon into a secret history of music that stretches back forty years and into Jeff Noon own past .
Jeff Noon and David Toop also released a CD , Needle in the Groove : if music were a drug , where would it take you , on Sulphur Records in the same year .
Despite her daily dose of Lucidity , Marlene is gradually succumbing to the malady , and it gets harder and harder to distinguish dream from reality , hallucinations from events .
217 Babel Street was a collaborative project between four authors , Susanna Jones , Alison MacLeod , William Shaw and Jeff Noon .
Philip V ( c. 1292/1293 -- 3 January 1322 ) , the Tall , was King of France , King of Navarre , as Philip II , and Count of Champagne .
Philip was influenced both by the troubles and unrest that Philip V of France father had encountered during 1314 , and the difficulties that Philip V of France older brother -- Louis X , known as `` the Quarreler '' had faced during the intervening few years .
One theory has been that Philip V of France was concerned that if Philip V of France was to abandon Joan , Philip V of France might also lose Burgundy ; another theory suggests that Philip V of France slightly `` formulaic '' love letters to Philip V of France wife should be taken at face value , and that Philip V of France was in fact very deeply in love .
Philip remained as regent for the remainder of the pregnancy and for a few days after the birth of Philip V of France nephew John I -- the infant only lived for five days before dying .
The majority of the nobility , however , refused to attend , there were demonstrations in Champagne , Artois and Burgundy and Philip called a rapid assembly of the nobility on 2 February in Paris .
Philip laid down the principle that Joan , as a woman , could not inherit the throne of France , played heavily upon the fact that Philip V of France was now the anointed king , and consolidated what some authors have described as Philip V of France effective `` usurpation '' of power .
If the French crown was to bestow or grant new lands to nobles , Philip declared , they would usually be given only from the second source : this was a double-edged announcement , at once reinforcing the core , unalienable powers of the crown , whilst also reassuring nobles that their lands were sacrosanct unless they were forfeited to the crown in punishment for a crime or misdemeanour .
Louis had been brought up in Nevers in central France , and at Philip 's court .
Like the Count of Flanders , Edward in Philip V of France role as the ruler of Gascony owed homage to the king of France , but as a king in Philip V of France own right , and as the head of a largely autonomous Gascon province , was disinclined to do so .
Both Philip and John agreed , however , that a French crusade was impossible whilst the military situation in Flanders remained unstable .
The Shepherds ' Crusade , or the Pastoreaux , emerged out of Normandy in 1320 .
The King 's southern tour and reform plans , although administratively sound by modern standards , had created much local opposition and modern historians have linked the King 's role in Poiters with the sudden outbreak of violence .
This all put Philip in a difficult position ; Philip V of France could not openly side with those claiming wrongdoing by the lepers , Jews and Muslims without encouraging further , unnecessary violence -- on the other hand , if Philip V of France did not ally Philip V of France to the cause , Philip V of France encouraged further unsanctioned violence , weakening Philip V of France royal position .
Asteroids (video game) was one of the most popular and influential games of the Golden Age of Arcade Games , selling 70,000 arcade cabinets .
Asteroids (video game) uses a vector display and a two-dimensional view that wraps around in both screen axes .
The object of Asteroids (video game) is to shoot and destroy Asteroids (video game) Asteroids (video game) while not colliding with either , or being hit by the saucers ' counter-fire .
Asteroids (video game) is also the first game to use Atari 's `` QuadraScan '' vector-refresh system ; a full-color version known as `` Color-QuadraScan '' was later developed for games such as Space Duel and Tempest .
The objective of Asteroids (video game) is to score as many points as possible by destroying Asteroids (video game) and flying saucers .
Once the screen has been cleared of all Asteroids (video game) and flying saucers , a new set of large asteroids appears .
The hardware consists primarily of a standard MOS 6502 CPU , which executes the game program , and the Digital Vector Generator ( DVG ) , vector processing circuitry developed by Atari themselves .
As the 6502 by Asteroids (video game) was too slow to control both the game play and the vector hardware at the same time , the latter task was delegated to the DVG .
Also , a new version of Asteroids (video game) was developed for PlayStation , Nintendo 64 , Windows , and the Game Boy Color in the late 1990s .
Asteroids (video game) includes fully 3D environments , new weapons , over 50 levels , and a 2 player split-screen mode ; including a Versus mode , a Co-op mode , and a Team mode .
In 2004 , Asteroids (video game) ( Including both the Atari 2600 port and the arcade original , along with Asteroids (video game) Deluxe ) were included as part of Atari Anthology for both Xbox and PlayStation 2 , using Digital Eclipse 's emulation technology .
Asteroids (video game) is one of the most popular and influential games of the Golden Age of Arcade Games , selling 70,000 arcade cabinets .
Another way to define Chomsky normal form ( e.g. , Hopcroft and Ullman 1978 , and Hopcroft et al. or where , and are nonterminal symbols , and α is a terminal symbol .
When using this definition , or may be the start symbol .
Charles IV ( Clermont 18/19 June 1294 -- Vincennes 1 February 1328 ) , called the Fair ( French : le Bel ) was Count of Champagne , King of Navarre ( as Charles I ) and the last `` direct '' Capetian King of France from 1322 to Charles IV of France death .
Charles married again in 1325 , this time to Jeanne d'Évreux : Jeanne was Charles IV of France first cousin , and the marriage required approval from Pope John XXII .
The ceremony represented a combination of a political statement , social event and an `` expensive fashion statement '' ; the cost of food , furs , velvets and jewellery for Charles ' event in 1326 was so expensive that negotiations over the cost were still ongoing in 1329 .
Charles relied heavily during the first half of Charles IV of France reign on Charles IV of France uncle , Charles of Valois , for advice and to undertake key military tasks .
Charles ' father , Philip IV , had confiscated the estates of numerous Jews in 1306 , and Charles IV of France took vigorous , but unpopular , steps to call in Christian debts to these accounts .
Charles IV of France inherited a long running period of tension between England and Charles IV of France .
Edward II of England , as Duke of Aquitaine , owed homage to the King of Charles IV of France ; Edward had successfully avoided paying homage under Charles ' older brother Louis X , and had only paid homage to Philip V under great pressure .
One of the elements in the disputes was the border province of Agenais , part of Gascony and in turn part of Aquitaine .
Charles had sent a message through Pope John XXII to Edward , suggesting that Charles IV of France was willing to reverse the forfeiture of the lands if Edward ceded the Agenais and paid homage for the rest of the lands : the Pope in turn had proposed Isabella as an ambassador .
Charles met with Isabella , and was said to have welcomed her to France ; Isabella was joined by the young Prince Edward later that year , who paid homage to Charles on Charles IV of France father 's behalf as a peace gesture .
Over time , however , Louis ' clear French loyalties and lack of political links within Flanders itself began to erode Charles IV of France position within the county itself .
Despite having massed forces along the border , Charles ' military attentions were distracted by the problems in Gascony and Charles IV of France eventually chose to settle the rebellion peacefully through the Peace of Arques in 1326 , in which Louis was only indirectly involved .
Charles gave Charles IV of France nephew a particularly advanced education by the standards of the day , arranged for Charles IV of France marriage to Blanche of Valois and also bestowed Charles IV of France name upon Václav .
Charles IV of France father , Philip IV , had committed France to a fresh crusade and Charles IV of France brother , Philip V , had brought plans for a fresh invasion close to execution in 1320 , their cancellation resulting in the informal and chaotic Shepherds ' Crusade .
Andronicus II responded by sending an envoy to Paris in 1327 , proposing peace and discussions on ecclesiastical union -- a French envoy sent in return with Pope John 's blessing later in the year , however , found Byzantium beset with civil war and negotiations floundered .
This allowed the kings of the various cities to accumulate wealth and power .
There is however some evidence that the area had been occupied long before the alleged arrival of Mycenaeans ( at Enkomi ) and the town of Salamis, Cyprus was developed as a replacement when Engkomi was isolated from the sea .
Under King Evagoras ( 411-374 BCE ) Greek culture and art flourished in the city and Salamis, Cyprus would be interesting one day when the spade of the archaeologist uncovers public buildings of this period .
Marguerite Yon ( archaeologist ) claims that `` Literary texts and inscriptions suggest that by the Classical period , Kition in present-day Larnaca was one of the principal local powers , along with Salamis, Cyprus neighbor Salamis '' .
In 306 BCE , Salamis, Cyprus was the site of a naval battle between the fleets of Demetrius I of Macedon and Ptolemy I of Egypt .
One royal tomb contained a large amount of Greek Geometric pottery and this has been explained as the dowry of a Greek princess who married into the royal family of Salamis, Cyprus .
At this time the Greeks were embarking on an eastward expansion by founding colonies in Asia Minor and Syria ; Salamis, Cyprus must have served as an intermediate station ; it has even been suggested that Cypriots helped the Greeks in their venture .
Salamis, Cyprus is the site of a naval battle between the fleets of Demetrius I of Macedon and Ptolemy I of Egypt .
Many Rarámuri reside in the cooler , mountainous regions during the hot summer months and migrate deeper into the canyons in the cooler winter months , where the climate is more temperate .
The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty ( Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty ) bans all nuclear explosions in all environments , for military or civilian purposes .
These `` Annex 2 states '' are states that participated in Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty negotiations between 1994 and 1996 and possessed nuclear power reactors or research reactors at that time .
Over 50 nuclear explosions were registered between 16 July 1945 , when the first nuclear explosive test was conducted by the United States at White Sands Missile Range near Alamogordo , New Mexico , and 31 December 1953 .
Under the direction of Prime Minister John Howard and Foreign Minister Alexander Downer , Australia then sent the text to the United Nations General Assembly in New York , where it was submitted as a draft resolution .
India and Pakistan both carried out two sets of tests in 1998 .
The Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Organization ( CTBTO ) , an international organization headquartered in Vienna , Austria , was created to build the verification regime , including establishment and provisional operation of the network of monitoring stations , the creation of an international data centre , and development of the On Site Inspection capability .
Compounds with atoms other than carbon and fluorine are not true fluorocarbons and Fluorocarbon are considered as fluorocarbon derivatives in a separate section below .
Additionally , multiple carbon -- fluorine bonds increase the strength and stability of other nearby carbon -- fluorine bonds on the same geminal carbon , as Fluorocarbon has a higher positive partial charge .
The so-called `` catalytic '' method involved reacting fluorine and hydrocarbon on a bed of gold-plated copper turnings , the metal removing the heat of the reaction ( so not really acting as a catalyst at all ) , allowing larger hydrocarbons to survive the process .
C6H14 + 28 CoF3 → C6F14 + 14 HF + 28 CoF2 Industrially , both steps are combined , for example in the manufacture of the Flutec range of fluorocarbons , using a vertical stirred bed reactor , with hydrocarbon introduced at the bottom , and fluorine introduced half way up the reactor .
Many geomorphologists are particularly interested in the potential for feedbacks between climate and tectonics mediated by Geomorphology processes .
Because geomorphology is defined to comprise everything related to the surface of Earth and Geomorphology modification , Geomorphology is a broad field with many facets .
While Penck and Davis and their followers were writing and studying primarily in Western Europe , another , largely separate , school of geomorphology was developed in the United States in the middle years of the 20th century .
Modern advances in geochronology , in particular cosmogenic radionuclide dating , optically stimulated luminescence dating and low-temperature thermochronology have enabled us for the first time to measure the rates at which Geomorphology processes occur on geological timescales .
At the same time , the use of more precise physical measurement techniques , including differential GPS , remotely sensed digital terrain models and laser scanning techniques , have allowed quantification and study of these processes as Geomorphology happen .
The water , as Geomorphology flows over the channel bed , is able to mobilize sediment and transport Geomorphology downstream , either as bed load , suspended load or dissolved load .
The way glacial processes interact with other landscape elements , particularly hillslope and fluvial processes , is an important aspect of Plio-Pleistocene landscape evolution and Geomorphology sedimentary record in many high mountain environments .
In Greek mythology , the Aloadae ( or Aloadai ; ) were Otus and Ephialtes , sons of Iphimedia , wife of Aloeus , by Poseidon , whom she induced to make her pregnant by going to the seashore and disporting herself in the surf or scooping seawater into her bosom .
Nevertheless , Ephialtes of Trachis argues Ephialtes was the one who revealed this trail because `` the deputies of the Greeks , the Pylagorae , who must have had the best means for ascertaining the truth , did not offer the reward on the heads of Onetas and Corydallus , but for that of Ephialtes of Trachis '' .
The news reached the Greeks at Thermopylae either late that day or before the dawn of the next day , who held a council to decide their next step .
Frank Miller 's 1998 comic book miniseries 300 , and the 2006 film adaptation of the same name , portray Ephialtes as a severely deformed Spartan in exile who betrays the Spartan army after Leonidas , although sympathetic towards Ephialtes of Trachis , denies Ephialtes of Trachis the right to fight because Ephialtes of Trachis was unable to lift a shield high enough , thus compromising the integrity of the phalanx formation .
Local Exchange Trading Systems is a fully fledged monetary or exchange system , unlike direct barter .
For example in Australia , Peter Baldwin , a former Minister of Social Security in the Keating government , encouraged Local Exchange Trading Systems as a way of letting welfare recipients borrow against their welfare entitlement for urgent personal needs or to establish themselves in business .
Aeolus was outraged and compelled Canace to commit suicide as punishment , sending her a sword with which she was to stab herself .
The adjustable loop forms of the rolling hitch and Magnus hitch , in addition to being called either of those two names , have also come to be known variously as Taut-line hitch , tent-line hitch , rigger 's hitch , adjustable hitch , or midshipman 's hitch .
In Greek mythology , Enarete or Aenarete ( , Ainarete ) , daughter of Deimachus , was the wife of Aeolus and ancestress of the Aeolians .
Poseidon , in the guise of a kingfisher , seduced Alope , his granddaughter through Cercyon , and from the union she gave birth to Hippothoon .
Cercyon is also the name of the son of Agamedes , and the father of Hippothous , who succeeded Agapenor as king of Arcadia when he did not return from Troy .
Cercyon is the name of the son of Agamedes , and the father of Hippothous , who succeeded Agapenor as king of Arcadia when he did not return from Troy .
This region , under a ridge of high pressure called Horse latitudes , is an area which receives little precipitation and has variable winds mixed with calm .
Horse latitudes is subtropical latitudes between 30 and 35 degrees .
Following a career as an Apostolic Delegate for West Africa and Superior General of the Holy Ghost Fathers , Marcel Lefebvre took the lead in opposing the changes within the Church associated with the Second Vatican Council .
The Holy See immediately declared that Marcel Lefebvre and the other bishops who had participated in the ceremony had incurred automatic excommunication under Catholic canon law .
Marcel Lefebvre was the second son and third child of eight children of textile factory-owner René Lefebvre and Gabrielle , born Watine , who died in 1938 .
In 1958 Pope Pius XII died and was succeeded by Pope John XXIII , who , in 1959 , after giving Marcel Lefebvre the choice between remaining either as Apostolic Delegate or as Archbishop of Dakar , appointed another to the post of Apostolic Delegate for French Africa .
The expressed view of some that this overwhelming majority was only due to intense lobbying by the reformist wing of Council Fathers among those prelates who initially had reservations or even objections , however , is not accepted by all observers .
The Third Republic was reft by conflicts between the secular Left and the Catholic Right , with many individuals on both sides espousing distinctly radical positions ( see , for example , the article on the famous Dreyfus affair ) .
In what Marcel Lefebvre later described as a mood of `` doubtlessly excessive indignation '' , the Archbishop wrote a `` Declaration '' in which Marcel Lefebvre strongly attacked the modernist and liberal trends that Marcel Lefebvre saw as apparent in the reforms being undertaken within the Church at that time .
Marcel Lefebvre responded with a letter claiming that the modernisation of the Church was a `` compromise with the ideas of modern man '' originating in a secret agreement between high dignitaries in the Church and senior Freemasons prior to the Council .
In Marcel Lefebvre biography of Lefebvre , The Horn of the Unicorn , David Allen White said that Lefebvre received a small number of votes ( variously reported as three or `` several '' ) in the August 1978 conclave that elected Pope John Paul Marcel Lefebvre , a matter that , Marcel Lefebvre said , caused some consternation among the cardinals , as Lefebvre was not a cardinal , and casting a vote for a non-cardinal in a papal election is unusual , although permitted by Church law .
On 30 June 1988 , Marcel Lefebvre , with Bishop Emeritus Antônio de Castro Mayer of Campos , Brazil , as co-consecrator , consecrated four SSPX priests as bishops : Bernard Tissier de Mallerais , Richard Williamson , Alfonso de Galarreta and Bernard Fellay .
The next day , 1 July , the Congregation for Bishops issued a decree stating that this was a schismatic act and that all six people directly involved had thereby incurred automatic excommunication .
Lefebvre declared that Marcel Lefebvre and the other clerics involved had not `` separated themselves from Rome '' and were therefore not schismatic and that they `` found themselves in a case of necessity '' , not having succeeded , as they said , in making `` Rome '' understand that `` this change which has occurred in the Church '' since the Second Vatican Council was `` not Catholic '' .
Marcel Lefebvre died in 1991 at the age of 85 from cancer in Martigny , Switzerland and , eight days later , was buried in the crypt at the society 's international seminary in Écône , Switzerland .
Marcel Lefebvre is the second son and third child of eight children of textile factory-owner René Lefebvre and Gabrielle , born Watine , who died in 1938 .
In Greek mythology , Hippolyta , Hippoliyte , or Hippolyte was the Amazonian queen who possessed a magical girdle Hippolyta was given by Hippolyta father Ares , the god of war .
Then ( according to Apollodorus ) , the goddess Hera , making Hippolyta appear as one of the Amazons , spread a rumor among them that Heracles and his crew were actually abducting their queen .
When the defenders closed the doors on the attackers , either Hippolyta was killed , Theseus directly killed Hippolyta in the fight , Hippolyta was accidentally killed by another Amazon , Molpadia , while fighting by Theseus ' side , or was accidentally killed by Hippolyta sister Penthesilea during this battle or in a separate incident .
Theseus declares to Hippolyta that , although he `` wooed Hippolyta with his sword , '' he will wed Hippolyta `` with pomp , with triumph , and with revelling '' and promises to begin a celebration that will continue until the wedding ( Ii. 19 ) .
However , Hippolyta attracts Theseus with Hippolyta feminine allure and charm to such a degree that he is completely smitten with Hippolyta .
In Greek mythology , Otrera ( Greek : Οτρηρη Otrērē ) was a Queen of the Amazons ; the daughter of Eurus ( the east wind ) , consort of Ares and mother of Hippolyta , Antiope , Melanippe , and Penthesilea .
On Penthesilea first , and only , day of fighting , Penthesilea kills many men and clashes with Telamonian Ajax , although there is no clear victor , before Penthesilea comes face to face with Achilles , who had been summoned by Telamonian Ajax .
According to Diodorus Siculus `` Now they say that Penthesilea was the last of the Amazons to win distinction for bravery and that for the future the race diminished more and more and then lost all its strength ; consequently in later times , whenever any writers recount their prowess , men consider the ancient stories about the Amazons to be fictitious tales '' .
Twelfth-century Byzantine scholar Eustathius of Thessalonica postulated a more brutal and literalist reading of the term loved , however , maintaining that Achilles actually committed an act of necrophilia on Penthesilea corpse as a final insult to Penthesilea .
In Greek mythology , Amazonomachy ( English translation : `` Amazon battle '' ; plural , Amazonomachiai Ἀμαζονομαχίαι ( Ancient Greek ) or Amazonomachies Αμαζονομαχίες ( Modern Greek ) ) was the portrayal of the mythical battle between the Ancient Greeks and the Amazons , a nation of all-female warriors .
Many of the myths portrayed were that of Heracles ' ninth labor , which was the retrieval of the girdle of Hippolyta , Queen of the Amazons , and of Theseus ' abduction of Hippolyta , who claimed her as his wife .
The west metopes of the Parthenon depict a battle between Greeks and Amazons .
Amazonomachy is the portrayal of the mythical battle between the Ancient Greeks and the Amazons , a nation of all-female warriors .
The group named itself `` Wilco '' after the military and commercial aviation radio voice acronym for `` Will Comply '' , a choice which Tweedy has called `` fairly ironic for a rock band to name themselves '' .
A recording contract between Bragg and Wilco was signed after a show at Shepherd 's Bush Empire .
Tempers flared between Bragg and Wilco after the album was completed .
Bennett called Bragg about the possibility of remixing Bragg 's songs , to which Bragg responded `` you make your record , and I 'll make mine , fucker '' .
Wilco agreed to do this `` once and once only '' and recorded a radio-friendly version of `` Ca n't Stand It '' at the request of David Kahne , the head of the A&R department .
Although Bennett sought to act as both mixer and engineer for Yankee Hotel Foxtrot , Tweedy was unsure of Bennett 's abilities against those of O'Rourke .
Tensions grew between Bennett and O'Rourke because Bennett wanted to mix every song on the album .
Later that day , Wilco Wilco agreed to `` create something good in the world right now '' and record some material .
A Ghost Is Born was released on June 22 , 2004 , and became Wilco first top ten album in the U.S. The album earned Wilco Grammy Awards for Best Alternative Music Album and Best Recording Package in 2005 .
Reviewer James Brubaker states that Wilco `` shines on a handful of the songs '' on Sky Blue Sky , such as the `` light , and straightforward '' songs .
While praising the album as `` deceptively insinuating , almost intoxicating to listen to '' and noting its `` impeccable sound quality , '' the reviewer claimed that `` Sky Blue Sky becomes the first Wilco album that sounds too careful for its own good '' .
While the NPR reviewer stated that the recording `` is n't groundbreaking , '' they praised its `` coherent musical expression '' and emphasis on `` solid songcraft without pretense '' which created a `` satisfying and melodically sound album '' .
Jeff Tweedy co-wrote `` Too Blue '' with Johnny Marr , and Glenn , John and Pat play on most tracks on the album .
Having enjoyed their time in New Zealand and the vibe of Finn 's own Roundhead Studios , the four members stayed in Auckland through January to record the foundation tracks for their next album .
Jim Scott , who acted as engineer and mixer for the Neil Finn project , stayed on in the same capacity for the Wilco sessions .
Wilco draws influence from bands from a variety of musical genres , but primarily from music created between 1966 and 1974 .
According to Tweedy , `` It was eye-opening that I was n't the only person that felt like these worlds had a lot more in common than they 'd been given credit for -- that experimentation and avant-garde theory was not directly opposed to beauty , y' know ?
species of Asparagus , family Asparagaceae ) and some are tree-like .
Almost all species have a tight cluster of leaves ( a rosette ) at the base of the plant or , in the tree-forming species , at the end of a woody stem .
The ovary is inferior with often a thin tubular portion at Asparagales apex formed by joined tepals or the tip of the ovary .
Two of the genera , Hemerocallis ( day lily ) and Phormium ( New Zealand flax ) , are grown as ornamentals worldwide .
A number of genera , including Brodiaea and Triteleia , are grown as ornamental plants .
Species of Cordyline are grown as house plants and as garden plants in temperate to tropical regions .
As with the subfamily Agavoideae , the Nolinoideae contains genera previously classified in a number of different families ( including Ruscaceae sensu stricto , Nolinaceae sensu stricto , Convallariaceae sensu stricto and Eriospermaceae sensu stricto ) .
Ruscus ( butcher 's broom ) has photosynthetic branches ( phylloclades ) , similar to those of Asparagus ( Asparagoideae ) ; Dracaena draco has a tree-like habit resembling Yucca ( Agavoideae ) and Cordyline ( Lomandroideae ) .
Older systems based on morphology placed many of the species now included in Asparagales into the lily family ( Liliaceae ) ; where other families were recognized , these were generally placed into the old order Liliales : a very large order which was used for almost all monocotyledons with colourful tepals and without starch in their endosperm ( the lilioid monocots ) .
Order Asparagales Link The earlier 2003 version , APG II , allowed ` bracketed ' families , i.e. families which could either be segregated from more comprehensive families or could be included in them .
Research in the 21st century has supported the monophyly of Asparagales , based on morphology , 18S rDNA , and other DNA sequences , although some phylogenetic reconstructions based on molecular data have suggested that Asparagales may be paraphyletic , with Orchidaceae separated from the rest .
Two differences between these two groups ( although with exceptions ) are : the mode of microsporogenesis and the position of the ovary .
( Some members of Vanilloideae and Cypripedioideae have crustose seeds , probably associated with dispersal by birds and mammals that are attracted by fermenting fleshy fruit releasing fragrant compounds , e.g.
Morphological studies have suggested a close relationship between Boryaceae and Blandfordiaceae .
The relationship shown between Ixioliriaceae and Tecophilaeaceae is still unclear .
Iridaceae is distinctive among the Asparagales in the unique structure of the inflorescence ( a ripidium ) , the combination of an inferior ovary and three stamens , and the common occurrence of unifacial leaves whereas bifacial leaves are the norm in other Asparagales .
The ` core Asparagales ' , comprising Amaryllidaceae sensu lato and Asparagaceae sensu lato , are a strongly supported clade , as are clades for each of the families .
Carambola , also known as starfruit , is the fruit of Averrhoa carambola , a species of tree native to the Philippines , Indonesia , Malaysia , India , Bangladesh and Sri Lanka .
Carambolas are best consumed shortly after Carambola ripen , when Carambola are yellow with a light shade of green or just after all traces of green have disappeared .
The carambola tree flowers throughout the year , with main fruiting seasons from April to June and October to December in Malaysia , for example , but fruiting also occurs at other times in some other locales , such as South Florida .
However , because of Carambola attractive star shape when cut in cross-section and yellow to golden color , Carambola began to grow in popularity .
Soon afterward , the limited commercial area of carambola under cultivation in south Florida ( 4 to 12 ha ) was top-worked to ` Arkin ' and this new cultivar led to a rapid increase in consumer demand for the fruit which further stimulated interest in establishing new commercial plantings .
The political system described below is that defined by the 1999 Constitution , which was approved by popular referendum in 1999 and first came into force on 30 December 1999 .
The judicial branch is headed by the Supreme Tribunal of Justice , which may meet either in specialized chambers ( of which there are six ) or in plenary session .
Less than two centuries later , Prince Khaemweset , fourth son of Ramesses II , is famed for identifying and restoring historic buildings , tombs and temples including the pyramid .
The Ptolemies were much interested in the work of the ancient Egyptians , and many of the Egyptian monuments , including the pyramids , were restored by them ( although Egyptology built many new temples in the Egyptian style ) .
The subsequent publication of Description de l’Égypte between 1809 and 1829 made numerous ancient Egyptian source materials available to Europeans for the first time .
Many highly educated amateurs now also travelled to Egypt , however , including women such as Harriet Martineau and Florence Nightingale , who both left fascinatingly philosophical accounts of their travels , which revealed learned familiarity with all the latest European Egyptology .
In 1880 , Flinders Petrie , another British Egyptologist , revolutionized the field of archaeology through controlled and scientifically recorded excavations .
John Thomas Lang ( 21 December 1876 -- 27 September 1975 ) , usually referred to as J.T. Lang during Jack Lang (Australian politician) career , and familiarly known as `` Jack '' and nicknamed `` The Big Fella '' was an Australian politician who was Premier of New South Wales for two terms ( 1925 -- 27 , 1930 -- 32 ) .
During Jack Lang (Australian politician) first term as Premier , Lang carried out many social programmes , including state pensions for widowed mothers with dependent children under fourteen , a universal and mandatory system of workers ' compensation for death , illness and injury incurred on the job , funded by premiums levied on employers , the abolition of student fees in state-run high schools and improvements to various welfare schemes such as child endowment ( which Lang 's government had introduced ) .
This was the first government to do so in the British Empire and three years before the ` Persons Case ' decision of the Privy Council in London would grant the same privilege to women throughout the Empire .
Australian governments responded to the Depression with measures that , Jack Lang (Australian politician) claimed , made circumstances even worse - cuts to government spending , civil service salaries and public works cancellations .
At an economic crisis conference in Canberra in 1931 , Jack Lang announced Jack Lang (Australian politician) own programme for economic recovery.I am just a plain , blunt man with a simple , straightforward story to tell of what seems to Jack Lang (Australian politician) to be the position in Australia to-day ... Jack Lang (Australian politician) bring a message of hope to the people of Australia ... one day , Jack Lang (Australian politician) said to Jack Lang (Australian politician) : ` Look , Jack Lang (Australian politician) girl , we have no money , and Jack Lang (Australian politician) suppose we never will have any , but we have our children .
We have nine of them , you know , and they are going to live in Australia when you and Jack Lang (Australian politician) are no longer here , and , by heaven , Jack Lang (Australian politician) am not going to allow anyone to ruin Australia if Jack Lang (Australian politician) can lift a finger to prevent it ' Lang was a powerful orator , and during the crisis of the Depression Jack Lang (Australian politician) addressed huge crowds in Sydney and other centres , promoting Jack Lang (Australian politician) populist program and denouncing Jack Lang (Australian politician) opponents and the wealthy in extravagant terms .
Key points of the Lang Plan included the reduction of interest owed by Australian Governments on debts within Australia to 3 % , the cancellation of interest payments to overseas bondholders and financiers on government borrowings , the injection of more funds into the nation 's money supply as central bank credit for the revitalisation of industry and commerce , and the abolition of the Gold standard , to be replaced by a `` Goods Standard , '' whereby the amount of currency in circulation would be fixed to the amount of goods produced within the Australian economy .
Jack Lang (Australian politician) opposed the Premiers ' Plan agreed to by the federal Labor government of James Scullin and the other state Premiers , who called for even more stringent cuts to government spending to balance the budget .
Most of the party 's branches and affiliated trade unions supported Jack Lang (Australian politician) .
The Governor , Sir Philip Game , a retired Royal Air Force officer , advised Lang that in Jack Lang (Australian politician) view this action was illegal , and that if Lang did not reverse it Jack Lang (Australian politician) would dismiss the government .
Jack Lang (Australian politician) wrote to Jack Lang (Australian politician) mother-in-law on 2 July 1932 : `` Still with all Jack Lang (Australian politician) faults of omission and commission Jack Lang (Australian politician) had and still have a personal liking for Lang and a great deal of sympathy for Jack Lang (Australian politician) ideals and Jack Lang (Australian politician) did not at all relish being forced to dismiss Jack Lang (Australian politician) .
But Jack Lang (Australian politician) felt faced with the alternative of doing so or reducing the job of Governor all over the Empire to a farce '' .
Lang Jack Lang (Australian politician) , despite objecting to Jack Lang (Australian politician) dismissal conceded that Jack Lang (Australian politician) too liked Game , regarding Jack Lang (Australian politician) as fair and polite , and having had good relations with Jack Lang (Australian politician) .
He states that Inachus , Cephissus and Asterion were mediators in a land dispute between Poseidon and Hera ; when they judged for Hera , Poseidon took away their water ( elsewhere he writes that Poseidon flooded the region as his revenge ) .
The mother of these children was variously described in the sources , either the primeval ash-tree nymph Melia , called the mother of Phoroneus and Aegialeus , or Argia ( his sister ) , called the mother of Phoroneus and Io .
Io was born from Inachus ' mouth technically making her Inachus and Melia 's daughter because she was born while Inachus was married to Melia .
Inachus is mediators in a land dispute between Poseidon and Hera .
The author of the Bibliotheca , in his list of names for the Danaids , does mention both Hypermnestra and Amymone , however .
( Library 2.1.5 ) Poseidon , in archaic times the consort of the two goddesses Demeter and Persephone in Argos , had dried up all the region 's springs after the Argolid was awarded to the protection of Hera .
Amymone/Hypermnestra is represented with a water pitcher , a reminder of the sacred springs and lake of Lerna and of the copious wells that made Argos the `` well-watered '' and , by contrast , a reminder that her sisters were forever punished in Tartarus for their murderous crimes by fruitlessly drawing water in pitchers with open bases .
The ball , which Aphrodite promises to Eros , is described as if Adrasteia were the Cosmos : `` Adrasteia zones are golden , and two circular joins curve around each of them ; the seams are concealed , as a twisting dark blue pattern plays over them .
Adrasteia is the Cosmos : `` its zones are golden , and two circular joins curve around each of them ; the seams are concealed , as a twisting dark blue pattern .
A similar tale is told by Antoninus Liberalis , although he names the maiden Arsinoe , and her lover Arceophon .
Ligdus named the daughter , who he believed was a son , Iphis after his own father ( the child 's grandfather ) , and Telethusa was glad to have her named that as the gender-neutral name would fit in any case .
Pausanias describes a painting of Iphis , Diomede and Briseis admiring Helen 's beauty as the latter has been brought back to the Greek camp from the sacked Troy .
In 1907 Hans Geiger began work with Ernest Rutherford at the University of Manchester and in 1909 , along with Ernest Marsden , conducted the famous Geiger-Marsden experiment called the `` gold foil experiment '' .
Hans Geiger brother , Rudolph , was very interested in meteorology and climatology .
Later , Anius , an old friend of Anchises , gave aid to him , his son Aeneas , and his retinue when they were fleeing from Troy and en route to the future site of Rome .
Antaeus ( also Antaeus ) in Greek and Berber mythology was a half-giant , the son of Poseidon and Gaia , whose wife was goddess Tinge .
The struggle between Antaeus and Heracles is a favorite subject in ancient and Renaissance sculpture .
A location for Antaeus somewhere beyond the Maghreb might be quite flexible in longitude : when the Roman commander Quintus Sertorius crossed from Hispania to North Africa , he was told by the residents of Tingis ( Tangier ) , far to the west of Libya , that the gigantic remains of Antaeus would be found within a certain tumulus ; digging it open , his men found giant bones ; closing the site , Sertorius made propitiatory offerings and `` helped to magnify the tomb 's reputation '' .
The learned client king Juba II of Numidia ( died 23 BC ) , husband of the daughter of Antony and Cleopatra , claimed his descent from a liaison of Hercules with Tinga , the consort of Antaeus .
Three versions of this story , with minor variations , were collected by the scholiasts ; one of those versions made Antaeus , king of Irassa , a figure distinct from the Antaeus killed by Heracles , while another one suggested that they were one and the same .
Yusuf Islam ( born Steven Demetre Georgiou ; 21 July 1948 ) , commonly known by Cat Stevens former stage name Cat Stevens , is a British singer-songwriter , multi-instrumentalist , humanitarian , education philanthropist , and prominent convert to Islam .
Cat Stevens , born in the Marylebone area of London , was the third child of a Greek-Cypriot father , Stavros Georgiou ( b. 1900 ) , and a Swedish mother , Ingrid Wickman ( b. 1915 ) .
Although Cat Stevens father was Greek Orthodox and Cat Stevens mother a Swedish Baptist , Georgiou was sent to St.
And in England , and Cat Stevens was sure in America , they loved animals '' .
`` I Love Cat Stevens Dog '' charted at number 28 , and `` Matthew and Son '' , the title song from Cat Stevens debut album , went to number 2 .
The original version of the The Tremeloes cover hit , `` Here Comes Cat Stevens Baby '' , was written and recorded by Stevens .
As a result of Cat Stevens serious illness and long convalescence , and as a part of Cat Stevens spiritual awakening and questioning , Cat Stevens wrote as many as forty songs , many of which would appear on Cat Stevens albums in years to come .
After hiring agent Barry Krost , who had arranged for an audition with Chris Blackwell of Island Records , Blackwell offered Cat Stevens a `` chance to record Cat Stevens songs whenever and with whomever Cat Stevens liked , and more importantly to Cat , however Cat Stevens liked '' .
Two of the songs , `` Do n't Be Shy '' and `` If You Want to Sing Out , Sing Out '' , were not released on any album until their inclusion in 1984 on a second `` greatest hits '' collection : .
During the time Cat Stevens was studying the Qur ` an , Cat Stevens began to identify more and more with the name of Joseph , a man bought and sold in the market place , which is how Cat Stevens says Cat Stevens had increasingly felt within the music business .
But Yusuf says Cat Stevens knew there were aspects of the music business , such as vanity and temptations , that did go against the teachings of the Qur ` an , and this was the primary reason Cat Stevens gave for retreating from the spotlight .
But in Cat Stevens first performance on the television show Later ... with Jools Holland , 27 years after leaving the music business , and in other interviews , Cat Stevens gave different reasons for leaving : `` A lot of people would have loved Cat Stevens to keep singing , '' Cat Stevens said .
In 1981 , Cat Stevens founded the Islamia Primary School in Salusbury Road in the north London area of Kilburn and , soon after , founded several Muslim secondary schools ; in 1992 , Yusuf set up The Association of Muslim Schools ( AMS-UK ) , a charity that brought together all the Muslim schools in the UK .
Cat Stevens also donated a portion of Cat Stevens box-set royalties to the Fund for victims ' families , and the rest to orphans in underdeveloped countries .
During the same year , Cat Stevens dedicated time and effort in joining the Forum Against Islamophobia and Racism , an organisation that worked towards battling misperceptions and acts against others because of their religious beliefs or their racial identity ( or both ) , after many Muslims reported a backlash against them due in part to the grief caused by the events in the United States on 9-11 .
Customs and Border Protection ( CBP ) officers alerted the United States Transportation Security Administration , which then diverted Cat Stevens flight to Bangor , Maine , where Cat Stevens was detained by officers from the Department of Homeland Security .
Yusuf said of the incident at the time , `` No reason was ever given , but being asked to repeat the spelling of Cat Stevens name again and again , made Cat Stevens think it was a fairly simple mistake of identity .
In October 2004 the British newspapers The Sun and The Sunday Times voiced their support for Yusuf 's exclusion from the U.S. , claiming that Cat Stevens had supported terrorism .
Cat Stevens solicitor was reported as having said that `` Cat Stevens was made out to be ` so sexist and bigoted that Cat Stevens refused at an awards ceremony to speak to or even acknowledge any women who were not wearing a veil ' '' .
Yusuf Cat Stevens discusses this topic on Cat Stevens website , saying , `` It 's true that Cat Stevens have asked Cat Stevens manager to respectfully request lady presenters refrain from embracing Cat Stevens when giving awards or during public appearances , but that has nothing to do with Cat Stevens feelings or respect for them .
Cat Stevens also established Cat Stevens own record label , `` Jamal Records '' , and Mountain of Light Productions , and Cat Stevens donates a percentage of Cat Stevens projects ' proceeds to Cat Stevens Small Kindness charity , whose name is taken from the Qur ` an .
In December 2004 , Cat Stevens and Ronan Keating released a new version of `` Father and Son '' : the song entered the charts at number two , behind Band Aid 20 's `` Do They Know It 's Christmas ?
The proceeds of `` Father and Son '' were donated to the Band Aid charity .
Our recordings are particularly appealing to the young , having used songs as well as Qur ` an verses with pleasing sound effects ... Cat Stevens observed that there are no real guidelines about instruments and no references about the business of music in the Qur ` an , and that Muslim travellers first brought the guitar to Moorish Spain .
Cat Stevens noted that Muhammad was fond of celebrations , as in the case of the birth of a child , or a traveller arriving after a long journey .
The Adopt-A-Minefield charity , under the patronage of Paul McCartney , works internationally to raise awareness and funds to clear landmines and rehabilitate landmine survivors .
Yusuf has credited Cat Stevens then 21-year-old son Muhammad Islam , also a musician and artist , for Cat Stevens return to secular music , when the son brought a guitar back into the house , which Yusuf began playing .
Muhammad 's professional name is Yoriyos and Cat Stevens debut album was released in February 2007 .
Accompanying Cat Stevens , as in the Cat Stevens days , was Alun Davies , on guitar and vocals .
That name is part of Cat Stevens history and a lot of the things Cat Stevens dreamt about as Cat Stevens have come true as Yusuf Islam '' .
Cat Stevens commented that the two worlds `` then , and now , are very different '' .
Cat Stevens answer was that this was actually an other cup ; something different ; a bridge between the East and West , which Yusuf explained was Cat Stevens own perceived role .
Cat Stevens played several new songs along with some old ones like `` Father and Son '' , `` The Wind '' , `` Where Do the Children Play ?
The extensive modification of landscapes in the United States and Canada , with the removal of roadside weeds that are butterfly host plants and the large-scale use of pesticides , and increased deforestation in Mexico , threatens the migratory Monarch butterfly .
Poe claimed to have written the poem very logically and methodically , intending to create a poem that would appeal to both critical and popular tastes , as he explained in his 1846 follow-up essay `` The Philosophy of Composition '' .
The narrator reasons that the bird learned the word `` Nevermore '' from some `` unhappy master '' and that The Raven is the only word The Raven knows .
When the raven responds with The Raven typical `` Nevermore '' , he is enraged , and , calling The Raven a liar , commands the bird to return to the `` Plutonian shore '' , - but The Raven does not move .
One scene in particular bears a resemblance to `` The Raven '' : at the end of the fifth chapter of Dickens 's novel , Grip makes a noise and someone says , `` What was that -- him tapping at the door ?
Poe first brought `` The Raven '' to his friend and former employer George Rex Graham of Graham 's Magazine in Philadelphia .
Nathaniel Parker Willis , editor of the Mirror , introduced The Raven as `` unsurpassed in English poetry for subtle conception , masterly ingenuity of versification , and consistent , sustaining of imaginative lift ... The Raven will stick to the memory of everybody who reads The Raven '' .
The immediate success of `` The Raven '' prompted Wiley and Putnam to publish a collection of Poe 's prose called Tales in June 1845 ; it was his first book in five years .
In 1875 , a French edition with English and French text , Le Corbeau , was published with lithographs by Édouard Manet and translation by the Symbolist Stéphane Mallarmé .
Even the term `` Nevermore '' , he says , is used because of the effect created by the long vowel sounds ( though Poe may have been inspired to use the word by the works of Lord Byron or Henry Wadsworth Longfellow ) .
In part due to The Raven dual printing , `` The Raven '' made Edgar Allan Poe a household name almost immediately , and turned Poe into a national celebrity .
`` The Raven '' was praised by fellow writers William Gilmore Simms and Margaret Fuller , though The Raven was denounced by William Butler Yeats , who called The Raven `` insincere and vulgar ... The Raven execution a rhythmical trick '' .
`` The Raven '' has influenced many modern works , including Vladimir Nabokov 's Lolita in 1955 , Bernard Malamud 's `` The Jewbird '' in 1963 and Ray Bradbury 's `` The Parrot Who Knew Papa '' in 1976 .
In Greek mythology , Polyeidos or Polyidus ( Greek , `` seeing many things '' ) , son of Coeranus , was a famous seer from Corinth .
According to a scholiast on Homer ' s Iliad , Polyeidos had two sons , Euchenor and Cleitus , by Eurydameia , daughter of Phyleus .
The land Autonous lived in produced no crops , but only rushes and thistles , that 's why all the children of Autonous were named after such plants .
Zeus and Apollo , out of pity for the grieving family , transformed the members into birds .
Autonous became a Stone Curlew ( Greek όκνος , because he `` was not in time '' , όκνησε in Greek , to save Anthus ) , Hippodamia became a Lark ( the bird has a crest which symbolizes her courage ) and Acanthis became a thistle finch ; others became birds whose Greek names are the same as their personal names were when they were humans .
Anteros was the son of Ares and Aphrodite in Greek mythology , given to his brother Eros , who was lonely , as a playmate , the rationale being that love must be answered if Anteros is to prosper .
Anteros , with Eros , was one of a host of winged love gods called Erotes , the ever-youthful winged gods of love , usually depicted as winged boys in the company of Aphrodite or her attendant goddesses .
The lover , inspired by beauty , is filled with divine love and `` filling the soul of the loved one with love in return '' .
Antheia was one of the Charites , or Graces , of Greek mythology and `` was the goddess of flowers and flowery wreaths worn at festivals and parties '' .
The two brothers fled from Euboea after they murdered King Phlegyas , settling in Hyria and then moving to Thebes , because they were friends with Pentheus , its king .
After Antiope was impregnated by Zeus and fled to marry king Epopeus in Sicyon , the Bibliotheca reports that Nycteus killed himself in shame , after asking Lycus to punish her .
Pausanias , however , states that Nycteus led the Thebans against Epopeus , but was wounded and carried back to Thebes , where he died after asking Lycus to continue the battle .
At Titane in Sicyonia , Pausanias saw an altar , in front of it a tumulus raised to the hero Epopeus , and , near to the barrow-tomb , the `` Gods of Aversion '' -- the apotropai -- `` before whom are performed the ceremonies which the Hellenes observe for the averting of evils '' .
In the etiological myth that accounted for the origin of rituals propitiating the daimon of Epopeus , it was told that Zeus impregnated Antiope , who , being the wife of Nycteus , fled in shame to Epopeus , king of Sicyon , abandoning her children , Amphion and Zethus .
The name Nycteus signifies `` of the night '' , as does Nyctimene in the following variant : according to accounts by the Roman Gaius Julius Hyginus and in Ovid 's Metamorphoses ( ii .590 ) , an Epopeus was a king of Lesbos .
Dirce hated Antiope and treated her cruelly after Lycus gave Antiope to her ; until Antiope , in time , escaped .
In Euripides ' play Antiope , Antiope flees back to the cave where Amphion and Zethus were born , now living there as young men .
In Greek mythology , Aoide ( or in Latin Aoede ) was one of the three original ( Boeotian ) Muses , though there were later nine .
In Delphi three Muses were worshipped as well , but with other names : Nētē , Mesē , and Hypatē , which are the names of the three chords of the ancient musical instrument , the lyre .
In later tradition , four Muses were recognized : Thelxinoē , Aoedē , Archē , and Meletē , said to be daughters of Zeus and Plusia ( or of Uranus ) .
A content-filtering web proxy server provides administrative control over the content that may be relayed in one or both directions through the proxy .
This is done either with a specialized proxy , called a content filter ( both commercial and free products are available ) , or by using a cache-extension protocol such as ICAP , that allows plug-in extensions to an open caching architecture .
Some common methods used for content filtering include : URL or DNS blacklists , URL regex filtering , MIME filtering , or content keyword filtering .
In 2009 a security flaw in the way that transparent proxies operate was published by Robert Auger , and the Computer Emergency Response Team issued an advisory listing dozens of affected transparent and intercepting Proxy server .
There is a class of cross site attacks that depend on certain behaviour of intercepting proxies that do not check or have access to information about the original ( intercepted ) destination .
However , if a network administrator monitors filtered URLs by frequency of use , CGI proxies are easy to detect because every data request for pages and page elements such as images are being redirected through the single CGI proxy URL .
`` Onion routing '' refers to the layered nature of the encryption service : The original data are encrypted and re-encrypted multiple times , then sent through successive Tor relays , each one of which decrypts a `` layer '' of encryption before passing the data on to the next relay and ultimately the destination .
The name would mean `` desired '' or `` lovely '' , if derived from the same root as Eros , as Apollonius of Rhodes playfully suggested in the invocation to Erato that begins Book III of his Argonautica .
The love story of Rhadine made her supposed tomb on the island of Samos a pilgrimage site for star-crossed lovers in the time of Pausanias and Erato was linked again with love in Plato 's Phaedrus ; nevertheless , even in the third century BCE , when Apollonius wrote , the Muses were not yet as inextricably linked to specific types of poetry as they became .
Polyhymnia , was in Greek mythology the Muse of sacred poetry , sacred hymn and eloquence as well as agriculture and pantomime .
In Greek mythology , Terpsichore `` delight in dancing '' was one of the nine Muses , ruling over dance and the dramatic chorus .
Muse magazine features Urania as one of the characters in the `` Kokopelli and Co. '' comic strip by Larry Gonick published in each issue of the magazine .
Thalia (muse) was the Muse who presided over comedy and idyllic poetry .
Thalia (muse) is the Muse who presided over comedy and idyllic poetry .
Michael Douglas ( born September 25 , 1944 ) is an American actor and producer , primarily in movies and television .
Douglas 's maternal grandfather , Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Melville Dill , served as Attorney General of Bermuda , as a Member of the Parliament of Bermuda ( MCP ) , and as commanding officer of the Bermuda Militia Artillery .
In 1994 , Douglas and Demi Moore starred in the hit movie Disclosure focusing on the topic of sexual harassment with Douglas playing a man harassed by Michael Douglas new female boss .
Critic and author Rob Edelman points out similarities in many of Douglas 's roles , writing that in some of Michael Douglas leading films , Michael Douglas personified the `` contemporary , Caucasian middle-to-upper-class American male who finds Michael Douglas the brunt of female anger because of real or imagined sexual slights '' .
For Michael Douglas characters in films such as these , `` any kind of sexual contact with someone other than Michael Douglas mate and the mother of Michael Douglas children is destined to come at a costly price '' .
Michael Douglas has explained why Michael Douglas enjoys both functions : `` Michael Douglas love the fact that on one side , with acting , you can be a child -- acting is wonderful for its innocence and the fun ... On the other side , producing is fun for all the adult kinds of things you do .
Michael Douglas has also offered reasons why Michael Douglas has become successful in both acting and producing : `` Michael Douglas think Michael Douglas 'm a chameleon .
During that time , Michael Douglas also guest-appeared on the episode , `` Fatal Attraction '' , of the popular television sitcom Will and Grace , as a gay cop attracted to Will Truman ( Eric McCormack ) ; the performance earned Douglas an Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Show .
Michael Douglas , the son of a Jewish father and an Anglican mother , has declared no religious affiliation .
In 2004 , Michael Douglas and Zeta-Jones took legal action against stalker Dawnette Knight , who was accused of sending violent letters to the couple that contained graphic threats on Zeta-Jones 's life .
Michael Douglas and Zeta-Jones hosted the annual Nobel Peace Prize concert in Oslo , Norway , on December 11 , 2003 .
Princess Joan , suo jure 4th Countess of Kent and 5th Baroness Wake of Liddell ( 29 September 1328 -- 7 August 1385 ) , known to history as Joan of Kent , was the first post-conquest Princess of Wales as wife to Edward , the Black Prince , son and heir of King Edward III .
Although the French chronicler Jean Froissart called Joan of Kent `` the most beautiful woman in all the realm of England , and the most loving '' , the appellation `` Fair Maid of Kent '' does not appear to be contemporary .
Edmund was executed after Edward II 's deposition , and Joan 's mother , along with Joan of Kent children , was placed under house arrest in Arundel Castle when Joan was only two years old .
Edward III died on 21 June 1377 and Richard became King .
In 1385 , Sir John Holland , an adult son of Joan of Kent first marriage , was campaigning with the King in the Kingdom of Scotland , when a quarrel broke out between him and Ralph Stafford , son of the 2nd Earl of Stafford , a favourite of the new Queen Anne of Bohemia .
Good Omens : The Nice and Accurate Prophecies of Good Omens , Witch ( 1990 ) is a World Fantasy Award nominated novel written in collaboration between the English authors Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman .
This comes as a bit of bad news to the angel Aziraphale ( who was the angel of the Garden of Eden ) and the demon Crowley ( who , when he was originally named Crawly , was the serpent who tempted Eve to eat the apple ) , respectively the representatives of God and Satan on Earth , as Good Omens have become used to living their cozy , comfortable lives and have , in a perverse way , taken a liking to humanity .
The history of this project and similar experiences with Gaiman 's various other works ( including The Sandman series ) have led to his cynical view of the Hollywood process , a view which occasionally surfaces in his weblog and in some of his short fiction .
In March 2013 , Cult Classic Theatre in Glasgow , Scotland , performed Amy Hoff 's adaptation of Good Omens with the permission of Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman .
Good Omens is a World Fantasy Award nominated novel written in collaboration between the English authors Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman .
A graphic novel adaptation , published in 2008 , was illustrated by P. Craig Russell and lettered by Todd Klein .
A theatrical adaptation , with music and lyrics by Stephin Merritt and book by David Greenspan , premiered on May 6 , 2009 , produced by MCC Theater and True Love Productions Off-Broadway at The Lucille Lortel Theatre .
The Pittosporaceae were placed within the Rosales , and many of the other forms within the family Cornaceae .
The territory of Neustria or Neustrasia , meaning `` new western land '' by opposition to Austrasia , originated in 511 , made up of the regions from Aquitaine to the English Channel , approximating most of the north of present-day France , with Paris and Soissons as its main cities ( which is roughly the current size of England and Wales ) .
The Carolingian kings also created a March of Neustria which was a frontier duchy against the Bretons and Vikings that lasted until the Capetian monarchy in the late tenth century .
The struggle for power continued with Queen Fredegund of Neustria ( the widow of King Chilperic I ( reigned 566-584 ) and the mother of the new king Clotaire II ( reigned 584-628 ) ) unleashing a bitter war .
During or soon after the reign of Clovis 's son Chlothar III , the dynasty of Neustria , like that of Austrasia before Neustria , ceded authority to Neustria own mayor of the palace .
In 687 Pippin of Herstal , mayor of the palace of the king of Austrasia , defeated the Neustrians at Tertry , uniting Austrasia and Neustria from the other side .
This polity was termed the ducatus Cenomannicus , or Duchy of Maine , and this was an alternative name for the regnum of Neustria well into the ninth century .
The term `` Neustria '' took on the meaning of `` land between the Seine and Loire '' when Neustria was given as a regnum ( kingdom ) by Charlemagne to his second son , Charles the Younger , in 790 .
The precise division of Francia into a Neustrian , Austrasian , and Burgundian kingdom dates only from the late sixth century , so earlier kings who ruled from Soissons or Paris are here excluded .
Only those who ruled a united Neustrian march are included , though the title `` of Neustria '' was carried by the earlier margraves of the Breton and Norman marches , the most notable by Robert the Strong , ancestor of these later Capetians .
Contralto vocal range falls between tenor and mezzo-soprano ; typically between the F below middle C ( F3 in scientific pitch notation ) to the second G above middle C ( G5 ) , although at the extremes some voices can reach the D below middle C ( D3 ) or the second B above middle C ( B5 ) .
When appearing separately , the term `` contralto '' applies only to female singers ; men whose voices fall in the same range or higher are known as `` countertenors '' .
Coloratura contraltos -- who have light , agile voices ranging very high for the classification and atypically extensive coloratura and high sustaining notes -- specialize in florid passages and leaps .
Contralto is the deepest , darkest , and heaviest contralto voice .
Signage in many countries , especially in Europe , conforms to the Vienna Convention on Road Signs and Signals using black text with a red circle on a white background .
`` Maximum '' is used instead of `` Speed Limit '' because Speed limit has similar meanings in English and French .
Methods used include roadside speed traps set up and operated by the police and automated roadside speed camera systems , which may incorporate the use of an automatic number plate recognition system .
The Synthesis of Safety Research Related to Speed and Speed limit report sponsored by the Federal Highway Administration published in 1998 found that changing speed limits on low and moderate speed roads appeared to have no significant effect on traffic speed or the number of crashes , whilst on high-speed roads such as freeways , increased Speed limit generally resulted in higher traffic speeds and more crashes .
Zones where speeds are set at 30 kph ( or 20 mph ) are gaining popularity as Speed limit are found to be effective at reducing crashes and increasing community cohesion .
Traffic engineers observe that the likelihood of a crash happening is significantly higher if vehicles are traveling at speeds faster or slower than the mean speed of traffic ; when severity is taken into account the risk is lowest for those traveling at or below the median speed and `` increases exponentially for motorists driving faster '' .
In 2009 The American Trucking Associations called for a 65 mph Speed limit and also national fuel economy standards claiming that the lower speed limit was not effective at saving fuel .
All countries ( except the United Kingdom and United States ) use metric speed limits in kilometres per hour .
In 1988 , after Burgess has died and his son Alex has been charged with watching Dream , Dream is able to escape .
Once The Sandman: Preludes & Nocturnes have nursed Dream back to health , Dream returns to his home and is shocked to see The Sandman: Preludes & Nocturnes has fallen into ruin .
Suda is somewhere between a grammatical dictionary and an encyclopedia in the modern sense .
The chief source for this is the encyclopedia of Constantine VII Porphyrogenitus ( 912-59 ) , and for Roman history the excerpts of John of Antioch ( fifth century ) .
A brawl in which Eustace and Eustace II, Count of Boulogne servants became involved with the citizens of Dover led to a serious quarrel between the king and Godwin .
`` With a harsh voice he ( Duke William ) called to Eustace of Boulogne , who with 50 knights was turning in flight and was about to give the signal for retreat .
This conforms therefore with Eustace having somewhat lost Eustace II, Count of Boulogne nerve and having urged the Duke to retreat whilst the Battle was at its height with the outcome still uncertain .
Other species such as A. pintoi are cultivated worldwide as forage and soil conditioner plants , with the leaves providing high-protein feed for grazing livestock and a nitrogen source in agroforestry and permaculture systems .
Arachis species , including the peanut , are used as food plants by some Lepidoptera species , including flame shoulder , nutmeg and turnip moths .
Eustace III, Count of Boulogne father Eustace II appeared at the Battle of Hastings in 1066 as an ally of William the Conqueror , and is listed as a possible killer of Harold II ; Eustace III, Count of Boulogne is also believed to have given William Eustace III, Count of Boulogne own horse after the duke 's was killed under Eustace III, Count of Boulogne by Gyrth , brother of Harold .
At a council held in London on 6 April 1152 , Stephen induced a small number of barons to pay homage to Eustace IV, Count of Boulogne as their future king ; but the Archbishop of Canterbury , Theobald of Bec , and the other bishops declined to perform the coronation ceremony on the grounds that the Roman curia had declared against the claim of Eustace IV, Count of Boulogne .
The death of Eustace was hailed with general satisfaction as opening the possibility of a peaceful settlement between Stephen and Eustace IV, Count of Boulogne rival , the young Henry of Anjou .
Caesarea Maritima ruins lie on the Mediterranean coast of Israel , about halfway between the cities of Tel Aviv and Haifa , on the site of Pyrgos Stratonos ( `` Straton 's Tower '' ) .
After the revolt of Simon bar Kokhba in 132 , which ended with the destruction of Jerusalem and expulsion of Jews , Caesarea became the center of Early Christianity in Palestine .
This was the first time any Apostle had preached to the Gentiles and before Paul 's first missionary journey .
Through Origen and especially the scholarly presbyter Pamphilus of Caesarea , an avid collector of books of Scripture , the theological school of Caesarea won a reputation for having the most extensive ecclesiastical library of the time , containing more than 30,000 manuscripts : Gregory Nazianzus , Basil the Great , Jerome and others came to study there .
This double wall was built with a 23 cm gap between the inner and outer layer .
Although the box had no bottom , it was buoyant enough to float out to sea because of the watertight space between the inner and outer walls .
Once Caesarea Maritima was floated into position , pozzolana was poured into the gap between the walls and the box would sink into place on the seafloor and be staked down in the corners .
The flooded inside area was then filled by divers bit by bit with pozzolana-lime mortar and kurkar rubble until Caesarea Maritima rose above sea level .
Also , studies of seabed deposits at Caesarea have shown that a tsunami struck the area sometime between the 1st and 2nd centuries CE .
Archaeological excavations in the 1950s and 1960s uncovered remains from many periods , in particular , a complex of Crusader fortifications and a Roman theatre .
This is the only archaeological find with an inscription mentioning the name `` Pontius Pilatus '' ; a double aqueduct that brought water from springs at the foot of Mount Carmel ; a boundary wall ; and a 200 ft ( 60 m ) wide moat protecting the harbour to the south and west .
Uma Thurman ( born April 29 , 1970 ) is an American actress and model .
Uma Thurman modeling credits included Glamour , the December 1985 supplement cover of Vogue and the May 1985 cover of British Vogue when Uma Thurman was only 15 years old .
The New York Times wrote : `` Thurman , as the Brooklyn-accented June , takes a larger-than-life character and makes Uma Thurman even bigger , though the performance is often as curious as it is commanding '' .
After Mad Dog and Glory , Uma Thurman auditioned for the Quentin Tarantino ensemble movie Pulp Fiction , which grossed over $ 107 million on a budget of only $ 8 million .
The film was considered a bomb at the box office , but many praised Thurman 's efforts , including A. O. Scott of The New York Times who said : `` Uma Thurman as a would-be actress is the one bit of genuine radiance in this aggressively and pointlessly shiny , noisy spectacle '' .
In a 2004 Rolling Stone cover story , Thurman and director Quentin Tarantino denied having had a romantic relationship , despite Tarantino once having told a reporter , `` Uma Thurman 'm not saying that we have n't , and Uma Thurman 'm not saying that we have '' .
Uma Thurman is the one bit of genuine radiance in this aggressively and pointlessly shiny , noisy spectacle .
Dance may also be regarded as a form of nonverbal communication between humans or other animals , as in bee dances and behaviour patterns such as a mating dances .
Joseph Jordania recently suggested that dance , together with rhythmic music and body painting , was designed by the forces of natural selection at the early stage of hominid evolution as a potent tool to put groups of human ancestors in a battle trance , a specific altered state of consciousness .
Dance presented with music may or may not be performed in time to the music depending on the style of dance .
In the early 1920s , dance studies ( dance practice , critical theory , Musical analysis and history ) began to be considered as an academic discipline .
The devil dances of Sri Lanka or `` yakun natima '' are a carefully crafted ritual with a history reaching far back into Sri Lanka 's pre-Buddhist past .
In the 1920s , important founders of the new style such as Martha Graham and Doris Humphrey began their work .
Drew Barrymore ( born February 22 , 1975 ) is an American actress , Drew Barrymore , screenwriter , producer , and model .
Following a turbulent childhood which was marked by recurring drug and alcohol abuse and two stints in rehab , Drew Barrymore wrote the 1990 autobiography , Little Girl Lost .
Subsequently , Drew Barrymore established Drew Barrymore in romantic comedies such as The Wedding Singer and , later , 50 First Dates .
Barrymore was born into acting : Drew Barrymore great-grandparents Maurice Barrymore and Georgie Drew Barrymore , Maurice Costello and Mae Costello ( Altschuk ) and Drew Barrymore grandparents John Barrymore and Dolores Costello , were all actors ; John Barrymore was arguably the most acclaimed actor of his generation .
In 2003 , Drew Barrymore reprised Drew Barrymore role as Dylan Sanders in , was nominated for an Emmy Award for Drew Barrymore performance in Olive , the Other Reindeer and appeared with Ben Stiller in Duplex in 2003 .
Summing up Barrymore 's appeal , Roger Ebert , in his review of 50 First Dates , described Drew Barrymore as having a `` smiling , coy sincerity , '' describing Drew Barrymore as `` ingratiating and lovable '' .
The name change came a year or so later , in an effort to create a name with more buzz .
Siren , the follow-up to Oyster because of the hit single `` London Rain '' , was released in 1998 , after which Heather Nova joined Sarah McLachlan and others on the North American Lilith Fair , a music festival with only female performers .
After the release of Siren and a world tour to promote the record , Nova took a break while various television show and film soundtracks licensed some of Heather Nova songs and Heather Nova record company ( Sony Records/The WORK Group ) released various singles from the album , which received only moderate play on America 's MTV2 , Europe 's MTV and Canada 's MuchMusic and on mainstream radio , although Heather Nova was popular on college radio .
Pan (moon) is a walnut-shaped small moon about 35 kilometres across and 23 km high that orbits within the Encke Gap in Saturn 's A Ring .
The existence of Pan (moon) was first predicted by Jeffrey N. Cuzzi and Jeffrey D. Scargle in 1985 , based on wavy edges of the gap which indicated a gravitational disturbance .
Pan (moon) was undertaken by considering all Voyager 2 images and using a computer calculation to predict whether Pan (moon) would be visible under sufficiently favorable conditions in each one .
Pan (moon) inclination , which would cause Pan (moon) to move up and down , is not distinguishable from zero with present data .
D. W. Griffith first took a job in a dry goods store , and later in a bookstore .
In 1908 , Biograph 's main director Wallace McCutcheon grew ill , and D. W. Griffith son , Wallace McCutcheon , Jr. , took D. W. Griffith place .
After seeing D. W. Griffith , which was filled with action and violence , audiences in some major northern cities rioted over D. W. Griffith racial content .
On 29 March 1929 , at the bungalow of Mary Pickford at United Artists brought together Pickford , Douglas Fairbanks , Charles Chaplin , Norma Talmadge , Gloria Swanson , John Barrymore , Dolores del Río and Griffith to speak on the radio show The Dodge Brothers Hour to prove D. W. Griffith could meet the challenge of talking movies .
D. W. Griffith wrote to Griffith , `` D. W. Griffith need help from the production side to select the proper writers , cast , etc. and to help D. W. Griffith generally in the supervision of these pictures '' .
Although Griffith eventually disagreed with Roach over the production and parted , Roach later insisted that some of the scenes in D. W. Griffith were directed by Griffith .
In 1946 , D. W. Griffith visited the film location of David O. Selznick 's epic western , Duel in the Sun , where some of D. W. Griffith veteran actors , Lillian Gish , Lionel Barrymore , and Harry Carey , were cast members .
D. W. Griffith early shorts , such as Biograph 's The Musketeers of Pig Alley ( 1912 ) , the first `` gangster film , '' show that Griffith 's attention to camera placement and lighting heightened mood and tension .
D.W. Griffith has five films preserved in the United States National Film Registry as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
Pan (crater) is 100 kilometers across and at least 8 kilometers deep .
In Greek religion and mythology , Pan (god) ( , Pān ) is the god of the wild , shepherds and flocks , nature of mountain wilds , hunting and rustic music , and companion of the nymphs .
In Roman religion and myth , Pan (god) counterpart was Faunus , a nature god who was the father of Bona Dea , sometimes identified as Fauna .
In the 18th and 19th centuries , Pan (god) became a significant figure in the Romantic movement of western Europe , and also in the 20th-century Neopagan movement .
Other sources ( Duris of Samos ; the Vergilian commentator Servius ) report that Penelope slept with all 108 suitors in Odysseus ' absence , and gave birth to Pan (god) as a result .
Like other nature spirits , Pan (god) appears to be older than the Olympians , if it is true that he gave Artemis her hunting dogs and taught the secret of prophecy to Apollo .
Kerenyi ( p. 174 ) notes from scholia that Aeschylus in Rhesus distinguished between two Pans , one the son of Zeus and twin of Arcas , and one a son of Cronus .
In Zeus ' battle with Gaia , Aegipan and Hermes stole back Zeus ' `` sinews '' that Typhon had hidden away in the Corycian Cave .
In the Battle of Marathon ( 490 BC ) , Pan (god) is said that Pan favored the Athenians and so inspired panic in the hearts of their enemies , the Persians .
Diogenes of Sinope , speaking in jest , related a myth of Pan (god) learning masturbation from his father , Hermes , and teaching the habit to shepherds .
In two late Roman sources , Hyginus and Ovid , Pan (god) is substituted for the satyr Marsyas in the theme of a musical competition ( agon ) , and the punishment by flaying is omitted .
Pan (god) could be multiplied into a swarm of Pans , and even be given individual names , as in Nonnus ' Dionysiaca , where the god Pan (god) had twelve sons that helped Dionysus in his war against the Indians .
Both were the sons of Hermes , Agreus ' mother being the nymph Sose , a prophetess : he inherited his mother 's gift of prophecy , and was also a skilled hunter .
Aegipan , literally `` goat-Pan , '' was a Pan (god) who was fully goatlike , rather than half-goat and half-man .
When the Olympians fled from the monstrous giant Typhoeus and hid themselves in animal form , Aegipan assumed the form of a fish-tailed goat .
Robert Graves ( The Greek Myths ) reported a suggestion that had been made by Salomon Reinach and expanded by James S. Van Teslaar that the hearers aboard the ship , including a supposed Egyptian , Thamus , apparently misheard Thamus Panmegas tethneke ` the all-great Tammuz is dead ' for ` Thamus , Great Pan is dead !
`` In Pan (god) true form the phrase would have probably carried no meaning to those on board who must have been unfamiliar with the worship of Tammuz which was a transplanted , and for those parts , therefore , an exotic custom '' .
Pan (god) was interpreted with concurrent meanings in all four modes of medieval exegesis : literally as historical fact , and allegorically as the death of the ancient order at the coming of the new .
In the English town of Painswick in Gloucestershire , a group of 18th century gentry , led by Benjamin Hyett , organised an annual procession dedicated to Pan (god) , during which a statue of the deity was held aloft , and people shouted ` Highgates !
Patricia Merivale states that between 1890 and 1926 there was an `` astonishing resurgence of interest in the Pan (god) motif '' .
A modern account of several purported meetings with Pan (god) is given by Robert Ogilvie Crombie in The Findhorn Garden ( Harper & Row , 1975 ) and The Magic Of Findhorn ( Harper & Row , 1975 ) .
Pan (god) is the god of the wild , shepherds and flocks , nature of mountain wilds , hunting and rustic music , and companion of the nymphs .
Research by Mary-Claire King in 1973 found 99 % identical DNA between human beings and chimpanzees , although research since has modified that finding to about 94 % commonality , with some of the difference occurring in noncoding DNA .
The common chimp 's long arms , when extended , have a span one and a half times as long as the body 's height and a chimpanzee 's arms are longer than Chimpanzee legs .
Chimpanzee feet are better suited for walking than are those of the orangutan because Chimpanzee soles are broader and the toes shorter .
Human brains , in contrast , have been measured as being three times larger , variously reported volumes include ~ 1,299 cc , ~ 1,158 cc , and averages of ~ 1330 cc .
The bonobo , on the other hand , has a mostly frugivorous diet and an egalitarian , nonviolent , matriarchal , sexually receptive behavior .
In contrast to males , which have a main purpose of acquiring dominant status for access to mating privileges and sometimes violent domination of subordinates , females acquire dominant status for access to resources such as food .
Nest-building , sometimes considered as tool use , is seen in chimpanzees which construct arboreal night nests by lacing together branches from one or more trees .
According to James W. Harrod , evidence for `` chimpanzee spirituality '' includes display of mourning , `` incipient romantic love '' , `` rain dance '' , appreciation of natural beauty such as a sunset over a lake , curiosity and respect towards wildlife ( such as the python , which is neither a threat nor a food source to chimpanzees ) , altruism toward other species ( such as feeding turtles ) and even `` animism '' or `` pretend play '' in chimps cradling and grooming rocks or sticks .
The most progressive early studies on Chimpanzee were spearheaded primarily by Wolfgang Köhler and Robert Yerkes , both of whom were renowned psychologists .
Molecular , microscopic and epidemiological investigations demonstrated the chimpanzees living at Mahale Mountains National Park have been suffering from a respiratory disease that is likely caused by a variant of a human paramyxovirus .
According to Project R&R , a campaign to release chimps held in U.S. labs -- run by the New England Anti-Vivisection Society in conjunction with Jane Goodall and other primate researchers -- the oldest known chimp in a U.S. lab is Wenka , which was born in a laboratory in Florida on May 21 , 1954 .
Pascal Gagneux , an evolutionary biologist and primate expert at the University of California , San Diego , argues , given chimpanzees ' sense of self , tool use , and genetic similarity to human beings , studies using chimps should follow the ethical guidelines used for human subjects unable to give consent .
Although his initial reports were quite positive , in November 1979 , Terrace and his team ( including psycholinguist Thomas Bever ) re-evaluated the videotapes of Nim with his trainers , analyzing them frame by frame for signs , as well as for exact context ( what was happening both before and after Nim 's signs ) .
Nim 's sentences also did not grow in length , unlike human children whose vocabulary and sentence length show a strong positive correlation .
Chimpanzee further show an aptitude for photographic memory , demonstrated in experiments in which the jumbled digits are flashed onto a computer screen for less than a quarter of a second , after which Chimpanzee , Ayumu , is able to correctly and quickly point to the positions where they appeared in ascending order .
The differences between chimpanzee and human laughter may be the result of adaptations that have evolved to enable human speech .
In that role , for instance , J. Fred Muggs appeared with Today Show host Dave Garroway in the 1950s , Judy on Daktari in the 1960s or Darwin on The Wild Thornberrys in the 1990s .
The rare depictions of chimpanzees as individuals rather than stock characters , and as central rather than incidental to the plot are generally found in works of science fiction .
Boraginaceae , the Borage or Boraginaceae , include a variety of shrubs , trees , and herbs , totaling about 2,000 species in 146 genera found worldwide .
Boraginaceae belong , according to the APG II , among the euasterid I group including the orders Gentianales , Lamiales , and Solanales , but whether Boraginaceae should be assigned to one of these orders or to their own ( Boraginales ) is still uncertain .
Boraginaceae are paraphyletic with respect to Hydrophyllaceae and the latter is included in the former in APG II system .
Some species and hybrids , particularly S. officinale and S. × uplandicum , are used in gardening and herbal medicine .
Asterales ( AST-er-ALE ' - eez ) is an order of dicotyledonous flowering plants that includes the large family Asteraceae ( or Compositae ) known for composite flowers made of florets , and ten families related to the Asteraceae .
From an analysis of relationships and diversities within Asterales and with their superorders , estimates of the age of the beginning of the Asterales have been made , which range from 116 Mya to 82Mya .
Of horticultural importance are many of the Asteraceae ( e. g. chrysanthemum ) and Campanulaceae .
Straight or slightly sinuous sand ridges typically much longer than they are wide are known as linear dunes .
Radially symmetrical , Dune are pyramidal sand mounds with slipfaces on three or more arms that radiate from the high center of the mound .
Most parabolic dunes do not reach heights higher than a few tens of metres except at Dune nose , where vegetation stops or slows the advance of accumulating sand .
The new wind direction will lead to the development of a new wing and the over development of one of the original wings .
Sub-aqueous ( underwater ) dunes ( also known in geology as megaripples ) form on a bed of sand or gravel under the actions of water flow .
A slang term that is used in the Southwestern States ( of the U.S.A. ) for those consolidated and hardened sand dunes is `` slickrock '' , a name that was introduced by pioneers of the Old West because their steel-rimmed wagon wheels could not gain traction on the rock .
Also , the deep roots bind Dune together , and Dune grows into a foredune as more sand is blown over the grasses .
Young dunes are called yellow dunes and dunes which have high humus content are called grey dunes .
Leaching occurs on the dunes , washing humus into the slacks , and the slacks may be much more developed than the exposed tops of Dune .
Dune is usually in the slacks that more rare species are developed and there is a tendency for the dune slacks soil to be waterlogged and where only marsh plants can survive .
Preventing sand dunes from overwhelming towns , villages , and agricultural areas has become a priority for the United Nations Environment Programme .
In Strophe original Greek setting , `` strophe , antistrophe and epode were a kind of stanza framed only for the music , '' as John Milton wrote in the preface to Samson Agonistes , with the strophe chanted by a Greek chorus as Strophe moved from right to left across the scene .
Strophe ( ; Greek , turn , bend , twist , see also phrase ) is a concept in versification which properly means a turn , as from one foot to another , or from one side of a chorus to the other .
Epode , in verse , is the third part of Epode , which followed the strophe and the antistrophe , and completed the movement .
Epode consisted of a verse of iambic trimeter , followed by a verse of iambic dimeter , and it is reported that , although the epode was carried to Epode highest perfection by Stesichorus , an earlier poet , Archilochus , was really the inventor of this form .
When the sections of the chorus have ended Antistrophe responses , Antistrophe unite and close in the epode , thus exemplifying the triple m in which the ancient sacred hymns of Greece were coined , from the days of Stesichorus onwards .
As Milton says , `` strophe , antistrophe and epode were a kind of stanza framed for the music then used with Antistrophe '' .
David Lynch ( born January 20 , 1946 ) is an American filmmaker , David Lynch , visual artist , musician and occasional actor .
David Lynch father , Donald Walton Lynch , was a research scientist working for the U.S. Department of Agriculture , and David Lynch mother , Edwina `` Sunny '' Lynch ( née Sundholm ) , was an English language tutor whose grandfather 's parents had immigrated to the United States from Finland in the 19th century .
Commenting on much of David Lynch early life , Lynch has remarked that `` David Lynch found the world completely and totally fantastic as a child .
At Francis C. Hammond High School in Alexandria , Virginia , David Lynch did poorly academically , having little interest in school work , but was popular with other students , and after leaving decided that David Lynch wanted to study painting at college , thereby beginning David Lynch studies at School of the Museum of Fine Arts , Boston in 1964 , where David Lynch was a roommate of Peter Wolf .
Describing the work as `` 57 seconds of growth and fire , and three seconds of vomit '' , David Lynch played the film on a loop at the Academy 's annual end-of-year exhibit , where it shared joint first prize with a painting by Noel Mahaffey .
Starring people David Lynch knew from both work and college and filmed in David Lynch own house , The Grandmother revolved around the story of a neglected boy who `` grows '' a grandmother from a seed to care for David Lynch .
Filming , which began in 1972 , took place at night in some abandoned stables , allowing the production team , which was largely Lynch and some of David Lynch friends , including Sissy Spacek , Jack Fisk , cinematographer Frederick Elmes and sound designer Alan Splet to set up a camera room , green room , editing room , sets as well as a food room and a bathroom .
Filmed in black and white , Eraserhead tells the story of a quiet young man named Henry ( Jack Nance ) living in a dystopian industrial wasteland , whose girlfriend gives birth to a deformed baby whom she leaves in David Lynch care .
Nonetheless , Lynch soon realized that Ronnie Rocket , a film that David Lynch described as being about `` electricity and a three-foot guy with red hair '' , was not going to be picked up by any financiers , and so David Lynch asked Cornfeld to find David Lynch a script written by someone else which David Lynch could direct .
Cornfeld went away and found David Lynch four possible scripts , but upon hearing the title of the first , The Elephant Man , Lynch was already sure that that was the script for David Lynch , going on nothing but the title .
The Elephant Man script -- written by Chris de Vore and Eric Bergren -- was based upon a true story , that of Joseph Merrick , a heavily deformed man living in Victorian London , who was held in a sideshow but was later taken under the care of a London surgeon , Frederick Treves .
However , in order to do so David Lynch would have to get the permission of Mel Brooks , whose company , BrookFilms , would be responsible for production ; subsequently Brooks viewed Eraserhead , and after coming out of the screening theatre , embraced Lynch , declaring that `` You 're a madman , David Lynch love you !
David Lynch then set about writing a script based upon the original novel , initially with both Chris de Vore and Eric Bergren , and then just by himself when De Laurentiis was n't happy with their ideas .
Meanwhile in 1983 David Lynch had begun the writing and drawing of a comic strip , The Angriest Dog in the World , which featured unchanging graphics of a tethered dog that was so angry that it could not move , alongside cryptic philosophical references .
Woody Allen , whose film Hannah and Her Sisters was nominated for Best Picture , said that Blue Velvet was David Lynch favorite film of the year .
Around this time , David Lynch met the television producer Mark Frost , who had formerly worked on such projects as the television police series Hill Street Blues , and they decided to start working together on a biopic of singer and actress Marilyn Monroe based upon Anthony Summers 's book , The Goddess : The Secret Lives of Marilyn Monroe .
It was while they were talking in a coffee shop that David Lynch and Frost both had the idea of a corpse washing up on the shore of a lake , and using this image as a basis subsequently set about on their third project , which they initially named Northwest Passage but which would eventually come to fruition as the television series Twin Peaks ( 1990 -- 1991 ) .
Lynch , who disliked the direction that the writers and directors had taken in the previous few episodes , chose to direct the final episode , which David Lynch ended on a cliffhanger , later stating that `` that 's not the ending .
The book was Barry Gifford 's novel Wild at Heart : The Story of Sailor and Lula , which told the tale of two lovers on a road trip , and David Lynch felt that it was `` just exactly the right thing at the right time .
Following on from the success of Wild at Heart , Lynch decided to return to the world of the now-cancelled Twin Peaks , this time without Mark Frost , to create a film that acted primarily as a prequel but also , in part , as a sequel , with Lynch stating that `` David Lynch liked the idea of the story going back and forth in time '' .
The film was , for the most part , a commercial and critical failure in the United States ; however , it was a hit in Japan and British critic Mark Kermode ( among others ) has hailed it as Lynch 's `` masterpiece '' .
After Twin Peaks , they produced a series of documentaries titled American Chronicles ( 1990 ) which examined life across the United States , the comedy series On the Air ( 1992 ) , which was cancelled after only three episodes had aired , and the three-episode HBO mini-series Hotel Room ( 1993 ) about events that happened in the same hotel room but at different dates in time .
However , thanks in part to a soundtrack featuring David Bowie , Marilyn Manson , Rammstein , Nine Inch Nails and The Smashing Pumpkins , it helped gain David Lynch a new audience of Generation X viewers .
Having many differences with most of David Lynch work , particularly in that it did not contain any profanities , sexual content or violence , The Straight Story was rated G ( general viewing ) by the Motion Picture Association of America , and as such came as `` shocking news '' to many in the film industry , who were surprised that it `` did not disturb , offend or mystify '' .
One of the key themes that they noted was the usage of dreams and dreamlike imagery and structure within David Lynch works , something they related to the `` surrealist ethos '' of relying `` on the subconscious to provide visual drive '' .
A number of David Lynch works , including Blue Velvet , Twin Peaks and Lost Highway are intentionally reminiscent of the 1950s American culture even though they were set in the later decades of the 20th century .
Lynch also tends to feature David Lynch leading female actors in multiple or `` split '' roles , so that many of David Lynch female characters have multiple , fractured identities .
Many of David Lynch works also contain letters and words added to the painting , something which David Lynch explains : `` The words in the paintings are sometimes important to make you start thinking about what else is going on in there .
Most recently Lynch has composed several pieces for Inland Empire , including two songs , `` Ghost of Love '' and `` Walkin ' on the Sky '' , in which David Lynch makes David Lynch public debut as a singer .
`` Silencio '' opened in October 2011 , and is a private member 's club although is free to the public after midnight .
An independent project starring Lynch called Beyond The Noise : David Lynch Transcendental Meditation Journey , directed by film student Dana Farley , who has severe Dyslexia and Attention Deficit Disorder , was shown at film festivals in 2011 , including the Marbella Film Festival .
Samuel Osmond Barber II ( March 9 , 1910 -- January 23 , 1981 ) was an American composer of orchestral , opera , choral , and piano music .
Samuel Barber is one of the most celebrated composers of the 20th century ; music critic Donal Henahan stated that `` Probably no other American composer has ever enjoyed such early , such persistent and such long-lasting acclaim '' .
Also widely performed is his ( 1947 ) , a work for soprano and orchestra , which sets a prose text by James Agee .
Samuel Barber father was a physician , and Samuel Barber mother , called Daisy , was a pianist of English-Scottish-Irish descent whose family had lived in the United States since the time of the Revolutionary War .
Samuel Barber aunt , Louise Homer , was a leading contralto at the Metropolitan Opera and Samuel Barber uncle , Sidney Homer , was a composer of American art songs .
Barber played and studied the music of Johann Sebastian Bach and was an adherent of Johannes Brahms , from whom Samuel Barber learned how to compress profound emotions into small modules of highly charged musical expression ( Cello Sonata , 1932 ) .
In recent years , a revised version of Antony and Cleopatra , for which Menotti provided collaborative assistance , has enjoyed some success .
In September 1992 , soprano Cheryl Studer , baritone Thomas Hampson , the preeminent Samuel Barber pianist John Browning and the Emerson String Quartet recorded the complete songs of Samuel Barber ( with the exception of Knoxville : Summer of 1915 ) at the Brahms-Saal of the famous Musikverein in Vienna , Austria .
Fraxinus americana ( Fraxinus americana or American Ash ) is a species of Fraxinus native to eastern North America found in mesophytic hardwood forests from Nova Scotia west to Minnesota , south to northern Florida , and southwest to eastern Texas .
Also , these species tend to occupy different habitat niches , with Fraxinus americana found in moist upland sites and Green Ash in wet forests of floodplains or swamps , although there is some overlap in habitat distribution .
White ash is one of the most used trees for everyday purposes and , to keep up with high demand , is cultivated almost everywhere Fraxinus americana can be .
The emerald ash borer ( Agrilus planipennis or Agrilus marcopoli and EAB ) is a green beetle native to Asia .
Since Fraxinus americana accidental introduction into the United States and Canada in the 1990s , and Fraxinus americana subsequent detection in 2002 , Fraxinus americana has spread to eleven states and adjacent parts of Canada .
Fraxinus americana is a species of Fraxinus native to eastern North America found in mesophytic hardwood forests from Nova Scotia west to Minnesota , south to northern Florida , and southwest to eastern Texas .
David Cronenberg , OC , FRSC ( born March 15 , 1943 ) is a Canadian filmmaker , screenwriter and actor .
After two short sketch films and two short art-house features ( the black and white Stereo and the colour Crimes of the Future ) David Cronenberg went into partnership with Ivan Reitman .
Perhaps the best example of a film that straddles the line between David Cronenberg works of personal chaos and psychological confusion is Cronenberg 's `` adaptation '' of David Cronenberg literary hero William S. Burroughs ' most controversial book , Naked Lunch .
Instead -- much like in David Cronenberg earlier film , Videodrome -- David Cronenberg consistently blurred the lines between what appeared to be reality and what appeared to be hallucinations brought on by the main character 's drug addiction .
David Cronenberg felt the connection between David Cronenberg screenwriting style and Burroughs ' prose style was so strong , that David Cronenberg jokingly remarked that should Burroughs pass on , `` David Cronenberg 'll just write David Cronenberg next book '' .
Disease and disaster , in Cronenberg 's work , are less problems to be overcome than agents of personal transformation .
Aside from The Dead Zone ( 1983 ) and The Fly , Cronenberg has not generally worked within the world of big-budget , mainstream Hollywood filmmaking , although David Cronenberg has had occasional near misses .
A fan of Philip K. Dick , author of `` We Can Remember it For You Wholesale , '' the short story upon which the film was based , Cronenberg related ( in the biography/overview of David Cronenberg work , Cronenberg on Cronenberg ) that his dissatisfaction with what he envisioned the film to be and what it ended up being pained David Cronenberg so greatly that for a time , David Cronenberg suffered a migraine just thinking about it , akin to a needle piercing his eye .
David Cronenberg recent work , the thriller A History of Violence ( 2005 ) , is one of David Cronenberg highest budgeted and most accessible to date .
Other regular collaborators include actor Robert Silverman , art director Carol Spier , sound editor Bryan Day , film editor Ronald Sanders , David Cronenberg sister , costume designer Denise Cronenberg , and , from 1979 until 1988 , cinematographer Mark Irwin .
Suschitzky was the director of photography for , and Cronenberg remarked that Suschitzky 's work in that film `` was the only one of those movies that actually looked good '' , which was a motivating factor to work with David Cronenberg on Dead Ringers .
David Cronenberg has not played major roles in any of David Cronenberg own films , but David Cronenberg did put in a brief appearance as a gynecologist in The Fly ; David Cronenberg can also be glimpsed among the sex-crazed hordes in Shivers ; David Cronenberg can be heard as an unseen car-pound attendant in Crash ; David Cronenberg hands can be glimpsed in eXistenZ ; and David Cronenberg appeared as a stand-in for James Woods in Videodrome for shots in which Woods ' character wore a helmet that covered David Cronenberg head .
In Phalaris Brazen bull , said to have been invented by Perillos of Athens , the tyrant 's victims were shut in and roasted alive by a fire kindled beneath while their shrieks represented the bellowing of the bull .
For the Greeks Britomartis ( Cretan dialect for `` sweet maiden '' , `` sweet virgin '' ) or Diktynna ( derived by Hellenistic writers as from diktya , `` hunting nets '' ) was a mountain nymph ( an oread ) whom Greeks recognized also in Artemis and in Aphaea , the `` invisible '' patroness of Aegina .
Every element of the classical myths that told about Britomartis served to reduce her power and scope , even literally to entrap her in nets ( but only because she `` wanted '' to be entrapped ) .
`` Britomartis , who is also called Diktynna , the myths relate , was born at Kaino in Crete of Zeus and Karme , the daughter of Euboulos who was the son of Demeter ; she invented the nets diktya which are used in hunting '' .
The third hymn to Artemis by Callimachus tells how she was pursued by Minos and , as Diktynna , `` Lady of the Nets '' , threw herself into fishermen 's nets to escape him ; thus rescued , she was taken by the fishermen to mainland Greece .
`` She passed her time in the company of Artemis , this being the reason why some men think Diktynna and Artemis are one and the same goddess , '' Diodorus Siculus ( 5.76.3 ) suggested .
However , not all types of fruit tree are suitable for all forms ; apples and pears do well as cordons and espaliers , for example , whereas cherries are more suited to the fan form .
Ralph Dale Earnhardt , Sr. ( April 29 , 1951 -- February 18 , 2001 ) was an American race car driver and team owner , best known for Dale Earnhardt involvement in stock car racing for NASCAR .
Earnhardt finished a career-low 12th in the points for the second time in Dale Earnhardt career , and the only time Dale Earnhardt had finished that low since joining RCR .
Wallace stated Dale Earnhardt and Earnhardt had to sit on the backs of their chairs to see and Earnhardt said `` This sucks , Dale Earnhardt could have gone hunting '' .
Dale Earnhardt was very consistent , scoring four wins , and after Ernie Irvan was sidelined due to a near-deadly crash at Michigan ( the two were neck-and-neck at the top of the points up until the crash ) , won title by over 400 points over Mark Martin .
Dale Earnhardt spin put Earnhardt in the lead with 5 cars between Dale Earnhardt and Labonte with 5 laps to go .
However , poor performances at the road course of Watkins Glen , where Dale Earnhardt wrecked coming out of the chicane , a wreck with Kenny Irwin Jr. while leading the spring race at Bristol , and mid-pack runs at intermediate tracks like Charlotte and Dover in a season dominated by the Ford Taurus in those tracks from Roush , Yates , and Penske , coupled with the extreme consistency of Bobby Labonte , denied Earnhardt the coveted eighth championship title .
Earnhardt Sr. was taken to Halifax Medical Center after Dale Earnhardt was extricated from Dale Earnhardt car , and was pronounced dead at 5:16 p.m. Hours later , Mike Helton , president of NASCAR announced to the officials , drivers and fans that Earnhardt had died from the accident .
The effects that Earnhardt 's death had over motorsports and the media frenzy that followed not just in the United States , but all over the world - were massive .
When Earnhardt died Kurt Busch said that was the first and only time Dale Earnhardt drove with Earnhardt .
A road between Kannapolis and Mooresville , near the headquarters of DEI , formerly NC 136 , was switched with State Highway 3 which was in Currituck County by the North Carolina Department of Transportation .
Atlanta Braves assistant coach Ned Yost was a friend of Dale Earnhardt , and Richard Childress .
In the Nextel Cup race on May 1 , No. 8 Dale Earnhardt Jr. , No. 1 Martin Truex Jr. , and No. 15 Paul Menard competed in cars with the same type of paint scheme .
In the summer of 2007 , Dale Earnhardt , Inc. ( DEI ) with the Dale Earnhardt Foundation , announced it will fund an annual undergraduate scholarship at Clemson University in Clemson , South Carolina for students interested in motorsports and automotive engineering .
As Dune begins , a longstanding feud exists between the Harkonnens of Giedi Prime and the Atreides of Caladan .
Leto and Jessica 's son Paul Atreides flees into the desert with Jessica , and both are presumed dead .
Over the next two years , Harkonnen learns that both of his nephews Glossu Rabban and Feyd-Rautha are conspiring against him to obtain his throne ; he lets them continue to do so , reasoning that they have to somehow learn to organize a conspiracy .
The Padishah Emperor Shaddam Corrino IV decides to intervene himself and arrives on Arrakis along with 50 legions of Sardaukar forces .
The Sardaukar and Harkonnen forces are trapped on the planet , astonished at the sandworm mounts and vast numbers of their attackers .
The Baron 's most prominent political rival is Duke Leto Atreides ; the Harkonnens and the Atreides have been bitter enemies for millennia , since the Battle of Corrin that ended the Butlerian Jihad .
In Hunters of Dune ( 2006 ) , the continuation of the original series by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson , the Baron is resurrected as a ghola ( 5,029 years after the death of Alia ) by the Lost Tleilaxu Uxtal , acting on orders from the Face Dancer Khrone .
British actor Ian McNeice 's interpretation of the Baron in the 2000 Sci-Fi Channel miniseries Frank Herbert 's Dune ( and Vladimir Harkonnen sequel , 2003 's Children of Dune ) is , though dramatic , somewhat lighter , more eloquent and sane in comparison to Lynch 's version , and therefore more consistent with the novel .
Both Alice and Bob have arrived at the same value , because ( ga ) b and ( gb ) a are equal mod p.
All the other values -- p , g , ga mod p , and gb mod p -- are sent in the clear .
Of course , much larger values of a , b , and p would be needed to make this example secure , since it is easy to try all the possible values of gab mod 23 .
The values of ( gb ) a and ( ga ) b are the same because groups are power associative .
The order of G should be prime or have a large prime factor to prevent use of the Pohlig -- Hellman algorithm to obtain a or b.
For this reason , a Sophie Germain prime q is sometimes used to calculate p = 2q +1 , called a safe prime , since the order of G is then only divisible by 2 and q. g is then sometimes chosen to generate the order q subgroup of G , rather than G , so that the Legendre symbol of ga never reveals the low order bit of a .
The secret integers a and b are discarded at the end of the session .
Destry Rides Again ( aka The Man from Montana ) ( 1939 ) is a western starring Marlene Dietrich and James Stewart , and directed by George Marshall .
In 1996 , Destry Rides Again was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
Kent and `` Frenchy '' ( Marlene Dietrich ) , his girlfriend and the dance hall queen , now have a stranglehold over the local cattle ranchers .
The crooked town 's mayor , Hiram J. Slade ( Samuel S. Hinds ) , who is in collusion with Kent , appoints the town drunk , Washington Dimsdale ( Charles Winninger ) , as the new sheriff , assuming that he 'll be easy to control and manipulate .
But what the mayor does n't know is that Dimsdale was a deputy under the famous lawman , Tom Destry and is able to call upon the equally formidable Tom Destry , Jr. ( James Stewart ) to help him make Bottleneck a lawful , respectable town .
A final confrontation between Destry and Kent 's gang is inevitable , but `` Frenchy '' is won over by Destry and changes sides .
Asteroid are grouped with the outer bodies -- centaurs , Neptune trojans , and trans-Neptunian objects -- as minor planets , which is the term preferred in astronomical circles .
Only one asteroid , 4 Vesta , which has a relatively reflective surface , is normally visible to the naked eye , and this only in very dark skies when Asteroid is favorably positioned .
The numbered-circle convention was quickly adopted by astronomers , and the next asteroid to be discovered ( 16 Psyche , in 1852 ) was the first to be designated in that way at the time of Asteroid discovery .
This was followed by the discovery of other similar bodies , which , with the equipment of the time , appeared to be points of light , like stars , showing little or no planetary disc , though readily distinguishable from stars due to their apparent motions .
In the early second half of the nineteenth century , the terms `` asteroid '' and `` planet '' ( not always qualified as `` minor '' ) were still used interchangeably ; for example , the Annual of Scientific Discovery for 1871 page 316 , reads `` Professor J. Watson has been awarded by the Paris Academy of Sciences , the astronomical prize , Lalande foundation , for the discovery of eight new asteroids in one year .
The last step of discovery is to send the locations and time of observations to the Minor Planet Center , where computer programs determine whether an apparition ties together earlier apparitions into a single orbit .
In 2006 , the term `` small Solar System body '' was introduced to cover both most minor planets and comets .
The three largest objects in the asteroid belt , Ceres , 2 Pallas , and 4 Vesta , grew to the stage of protoplanets .
When found , Asteroid were seen as a class of objects distinct from comets , and there was no unified term for the two until `` small Solar System body '' was coined in 2006 .
The main difference between Asteroid and a comet is that a comet shows a coma due to sublimation of near surface ices by solar radiation .
The innermost of these are the Kuiper-belt objects , called `` objects '' partly to avoid the need to classify them as Asteroid or comets .
Furthermore , most do not have the highly eccentric orbits associated with comets , and the ones so far discovered are larger than traditional comet nuclei .
Other recent observations , such as the analysis of the cometary dust collected by the Stardust probe , are increasingly blurring the distinction between comets and Asteroid , suggesting `` a continuum between Asteroid and comets '' rather than a sharp dividing line .
When the IAU introduced the class small Solar System bodies in 2006 to include most objects previously classified as minor planets and comets , they created the class of dwarf planets for the largest minor planets -- those that have enough mass to have become ellipsoidal under their own gravity .
Currently only the largest object in the asteroid belt , Ceres , at about across , has been placed in the dwarf planet category , although there are several large asteroids ( Vesta , Pallas , and Hygiea ) that may be classified as dwarf planets when their shapes are better known .
Simulations and a discontinuity in spin rate and spectral properties suggest that Asteroid larger than approximately in diameter accreted during that early era , whereas smaller bodies are fragments from collisions between Asteroid during or after the Jovian disruption .
The mass of all the objects of the asteroid belt , lying between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter , is estimated to be about 2.8 -- 3.2 kg , or about 4 percent of the mass of the Moon .
Adding in the next three most massive objects , Vesta ( 9 % ) , Pallas ( 7 % ) , and Hygiea ( 3 % ) , brings this figure up to 51 % ; whereas the three after that , 511 Davida ( 1.2 % ) , 704 Interamnia ( 1.0 % ) , and 52 Europa ( 0.9 % ) , only add another 3 % to the total mass .
Although this generally follows a power law , there are ` bumps ' at and , where more asteroids than expected from a logarithmic distribution are found .
Vesta , too , has a differentiated interior , though Asteroid formed inside the Solar System 's frost line , and so is devoid of water ; Asteroid composition is mainly of basaltic rock such as olivine .
Hygiea is a carbonaceous asteroid and , unlike the other largest Asteroid , lies relatively close to the plane of the ecliptic .
Some asteroids have moons or are co-orbiting binaries : Rubble piles , moons , binaries , and scattered Asteroid families are believed to be the results of collisions that disrupted a parent asteroid .
In August 2011 , a report , based on NASA studies with meteorites found on Earth , was published suggesting DNA and RNA components ( adenine , guanine and related organic molecules ) may have been formed on Asteroid and comets in outer space .
Only half a dozen asteroids are larger than 87 Sylvia , though none of them have moons ; however , some smaller asteroids are thought to be more massive , suggesting they may not have been disrupted , and indeed 511 Davida , the same size as Sylvia to within measurement error , is estimated to be two and a half times as massive , though this is highly uncertain .
Most asteroids outside the big four ( Ceres , Pallas , Vesta , and Hygiea ) are likely to be broadly similar in appearance , if irregular in shape .
50-km 253 Mathilde ( shown at right ) is a rubble pile saturated with craters with diameters the size of Asteroid radius , and Earth-based observations of 300-km 511 Davida , one of the largest Asteroid after the big four , reveal a similarly angular profile , suggesting it is also saturated with radius-size craters .
Examples are 3753 Cruithne and .
The first instance of this type of orbital arrangement was discovered between Saturn 's moons Epimetheus and Janus .
Such objects , if associated with Earth or Venus or even hypothetically Mercury , are a special class of Aten asteroids .
The two most widely used taxonomies now used are the Tholen classification and SMASS classification .
The former was proposed in 1984 by David J. Tholen , and was based on data collected from an eight-color asteroid survey performed in the 1980s .
Sandy Woodward book One Hundred Days , co-authored by Patrick Robinson , describing Sandy Woodward Falklands experiences , is a candid account of the pressures of high command in wartime and the impact on the individual commander .
In algorithmic information theory ( a subfield of computer science ) , the Kolmogorov complexity complexity ( also known as descriptive complexity , Kolmogorov -- Chaitin complexity , algorithmic entropy , or program-size complexity ) of Kolmogorov complexity , such as a piece of text , is a measure of the computational resources needed to specify Kolmogorov complexity .
The notion of the Kolmogorov complexity complexity can be used to state and prove impossibility results akin to Gödel 's incompleteness theorem and Turing 's halting problem .
Theorem : If K1 and K2 are the complexity functions relative to description languages L1 and L2 , then there is a constant c -- which depends only on the languages L1 and L2 chosen -- such that Proof : By symmetry , Kolmogorov complexity suffices to prove that there is some constant c such that for all bitstrings s function InterpretLanguage ( string p ) where p is a program in L2 .
The concept and theory of Kolmogorov Complexity is based on a crucial theorem first discovered by Ray Solomonoff , who published Kolmogorov complexity in 1960 , describing Kolmogorov complexity in `` A Preliminary Report on a General Theory of Inductive Inference '' as part of his invention of algorithmic probability .
There is an integer n0 such that U + log2 ( n0 ) + C 0 , where C is the overhead cost of function GenerateProvablyParadoxicalString return GenerateProvablyComplexString ( n0 ) ( note that n0 is hard-coded into the above function , and the summand log2 ( n0 ) already allows for Kolmogorov complexity encoding ) .
C.S. Wallace and D.L. Dowe ( 1999 ) showed a formal connection between MML and algorithmic information theory ( or Kolmogorov complexity complexity ) .
Kolmogorov randomness -- also called algorithmic randomness -- defines a string ( usually of bits ) as being random if and only if Kolmogorov complexity is shorter than any computer program that can produce that string .
To make this precise , a universal computer ( or universal Turing machine ) must be specified , so that Kolmogorov complexity means a program for this universal machine .
Johann Friedrich Endersch ( 25 October 1705 -- 28 March 1769 ) was a German cartographer and mathematician .
Jerry Pournelle ( born August 7 , 1933 ) is an American science fiction writer , essayist and journalist who contributed for many years to the computer magazine Byte .
The next User 's column did n't appear until the April 1982 edition with the `` Chaos Manor '' moniker first appearing in the June 1982 edition : Terminal Madness , The Word Grammatik , and Then Some - `` As if we did n't have enough problems here at Chaos Manor , we had to buy a new terminal the other day '' .
The June 1984 edition of Byte heralded a major revamp of the publication with a new section added entitled Kernel , and it was with this revamp that the very first Computing at Chaos Manor and Chaos Manor Mail first appeared in the new Kernel section .
Jerry Pournelle says Jerry Pournelle resists using the term blog because Jerry Pournelle considers the word ugly and because Jerry Pournelle maintains that Jerry Pournelle `` View '' is primarily a vehicle for writing rather than a collection of links .
None Jerry Pournelle wrote in response that while the Citizens ' Advisory Council on National Space Policy `` wrote parts of Reagan 's 1983 SDI speech , and provided much of the background for the policy , we certainly did not write the speech ... We were not trying to boost space , we were trying to win the Cold War '' .
As noted by James Wheatfield , `` Jerry Pournelle delights is setting up complex background situations and plots , leading the reader step by step towards a solution which is the very opposite of politically correct and defying a dissenting reader to find where in this logical chain Jerry Pournelle or she would have acted differently '' .
Falkenberg freely offers to use Jerry Pournelle and Jerry Pournelle men as scapegoats , since `` nobody is going to forget what happened today '' .
Wrestling with whether to reveal the scoop of the century to the world ( and therefore alerting the alien invaders as well ) , Jerry Pournelle confides the secret to an environmental activist .
Although Jerry Pournelle does this as protection against being arrested by the government and had not definitively decided to publish , the activist kills Jerry Pournelle to protect the secret .
Wilfred Cantwell Smith ( 1981 ) traced Barlaam and Josaphat from a 2nd to 4th century Sanskrit Mahayana Buddhist text , to a Manichee version , which then found its way into Muslim culture as the Arabic Kitab Bilawhar wa-Yudasaf ( Book of Bilawhar and Yudasaf ) , which was current in Baghdad in the 8th century .
The Bilauhar u Buddsaf story was translated into Pahlavi during the Sasanian period , and into Arabic in the Islamic era .
Paul C. Pappas states that from a historical perspective , this identification of Yuzasaf relies on legends and documents which include clear historical errors ( e.g.
When astrologers predicted that Barlaam and Josaphat own son would some day become a Christian , Abenner had the young prince Josaphat isolated from external contact .
Barlaam and Josaphat ( Georgian Iodasaph , Arabic Yūdhasaf or Būdhasaf ) is derived from the Sanskrit Bodhisattva .
A Georgian monk , Euthymios of Athos , translated the story into Greek , some time before Barlaam and Josaphat was killed while visiting Constantinople in 1028 .
The 2009 introduction includes an overview Among the mansuscripts in English , two of the most important are the British Museum MS Egerton 876 ( the basis for Ikegami 's book ) and MS Peterhouse 257 ( the basis for Hirsh 's book ) at the University of Cambridge .
`` Jaggies '' is the informal name for artifacts in raster images , most frequently from aliasing , which in turn is often caused by non-linear mixing effects producing high-frequency components or missing or poor anti-aliasing filtering prior to sampling .
This is an inescapable trade-off : if the resolution is insufficient to display the desired detail , the output will either be jagged or fuzzy , or some combination thereof .
Some newer game consoles , such as the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 , had publishing policies which mandated the use of anti-aliasing in all games released for them .
Jaggies in bitmaps , such as sprites and surface materials , are most often dealt with by separate texture filtering routines , which are far easier to perform than anti-aliasing filtering .
Jury instructions are often the subject of discussion of the case , how Jury instructions will decide who is guilty , and are given by the judge in order to make sure Jury instructions interests are represented and nothing prejudicial is said .
Forty-eight states ( Texas and West Virginia are the exceptions ) have a model set of Jury instructions , usually called `` Jury instructions '' , which provide the framework for Jury instructions to the jury ; sometimes , only names and circumstances have to be filled in for a particular case .
A rebuttal to this is that a jury instruction about jury nullification `` would transform the judicial process by providing a more rational basis for jury deliberation and decision making .
Further , those communities whose members are increasingly estranged from the criminal justice system 's decision-making process will benefit indirectly from greater participation and , in turn , from power over the kinds of cases prosecuted .
Also of note is the work of the contemporary Philosopher of Law Ronald Dworkin who has advocated a constructivist theory of jurisprudence that can be characterized as a middle path between natural law theories and positivist theories of general jurisprudence .
This was based on Aquinas ' conflation of natural law and natural right , the latter of which Aristotle posits in Book V of the Nicomachean Ethics ( = Book IV of the Eudemian Ethics ) .
`` Particular '' or `` partial justice '' , by contrast , is the part of `` general justice '' or the individual virtue that is concerned with treating others equitably .
Saint Thomas Aquinas Thomas of Aquin , or Aquino ( c. 1225 -- 7 March 1274 ) was a philosopher and theologian in the scholastic tradition , known as `` Doctor Angelicus , Doctor Universalis '' .
Francisco de Vitoria was perhaps the first to develop a theory of ius gentium ( the rights of peoples ) , and thus is an important figure in the transition to modernity .
This meant that relations between states ought to pass from being justified by force to being justified by law and justice .
The English Civil War and the Cromwellian dictatorship had taken place , and he felt absolute authority vested in a monarch , whose subjects obeyed Jurisprudence , was the basis of a civilized society .
Mainstream Islam distinguishes fiqh , which means understanding the details and inferences drawn by scholars , from sharia , which refers to the principles behind the fiqh .
Ibn Hazm ( 994-1064 ) disagreed with this , arguing that Qiyas refers rather to categorical syllogism in Jurisprudence and to analogical reasoning in a metaphorical sense .
On the other hand , al-Ghazali ( 1058 -- 1111 ) ( and in modern times , Abu Muhammad Asem al-Maqdisi ) argued that Qiyas refers to analogical reasoning in a real sense and categorical syllogism in a metaphorical sense .
Central to the Pure Theory of Law is the notion of a ` basic norm ( Grundnorm ) ' -- a hypothetical norm , presupposed by the jurist , from which in a hierarchy all ` lower ' norms in a legal system , beginning with constitutional law , are understood to derive their authority or ` bindingness ' .
A second school is labeled inclusive legal positivism , a major proponent of which is Wil Waluchow , and it is associated with Jurisprudence that moral considerations may determine the legal validity of a norm , but that it is not necessary that this is the case .
In his book Law 's Empire Dworkin attacked Hart and the positivists for their refusal to treat law as a moral issue .
Dworkin argues that law is an ` interpretive ' concept , that requires judges to find the best-fitting and most just solution to a legal dispute , given their constitutional traditions .
It is consistent with Dworkin 's view -- in contrast with the views of legal positivists or legal realists -- that no-one in a society may know what Jurisprudence laws are , because no-one may know the best justification for Jurisprudence practices .
Of those interpretations that fit , however , Dworkin maintains that the correct interpretation is the one that puts the political practices of the community in their best light , or makes of them the best that Jurisprudence can be .
The essential tenet of legal realism is that all law is made by human beings and , thus , is subject to human foibles , frailties and imperfections .
A jury trial ( or Jury trial ) is a legal proceeding in which Jury trial either makes a decision or makes findings of fact which are then applied by a judge .
Because the United States system separated from that of the England at the time of the American Revolution , the types of proceedings for which juries are used depends on whether such cases were tried by jury under English Common Law at that time , rather than the methods used in English or UK courts in the present .
For example , at the time English `` courts of law '' tried cases of torts or private law for monetary damages but `` courts of equity '' tried civil cases seeking an injunction or another form of non-monetary relief .
As a result , this practice continues in American civil laws , even though in modern English law only criminal proceedings and some inquests are likely to be heard by Jury trial .
The use of Jury trial evolved within common law systems rather than civil law systems , has had a profound impact on the nature of American civil procedure and criminal procedure rules , even in cases where a bench trial is actually contemplated in a particular case .
For capital cases , those which involved death , the loss of liberty , exile , the loss of civil rights , or the seizure of property , Jury trial was before a jury of 1,001 to 1,501 dikastai .
Thus the way Jury trial voted was kept secret because the jurists would hold their disk by the axle by thumb and forefinger , thus hiding whether Jury trial axle was hollow or solid .
Jury trial had no professional lawyers , but many of their farmer-warriors , like Njal , the truth-teller , were learned in folk custom and in Jury trial intricate judicial procedure .
The law of the land was the consuetudinary law , based on the customs and consent of John 's subjects , and since Jury trial did not have Parliament in those times , this meant that neither the king nor the barons could make a law without the consent of the people .
In the same way , a merchant shall be spared his merchandise , and a husbandman the implements of his husbandry , if Jury trial fall upon the mercy of a royal court .
And as the practice was anciently common of fining , imprisoning , or otherwise punishing the jurors , merely at the discretion of the court , for finding a verdict contrary to the direction of these dependent judges ; it is obvious , that juries were then no manner of security to the liberty of the subject '' '' .
` Abolition of the Star Chamber July 5 , 1641 '' ' '' An act for the regulating of the privy council , and for taking away the court commonly called the star-chamber .
Similarly , jury trials were abolished by the government of India in 1960 ( this was followed by Pakistan soon afterwards ) on the grounds Jury trial would be susceptible to media and public influence .
This is one of the reasons why both India and Pakistan abolished jury trials soon after independence .
While proponents may say that secrecy allows the jury to remain impartial by protecting Jury trial from undue pressure or attention , opponents contend that this prevents there from being a transparent trial .
In contrast where there is a decision by a judge or a bench , Jury trial are required to give often detailed reason of both fact and law as to why such a decision is given .
One issue that has been raised is the ability of a jury to fully understand statistical or scientific evidence .
In Jury trial the misuse or misunderstanding or mis-presentation by the Crown prosecution of statistics has led to wrongful conviction .
Until 1987 New South Wales had twenty peremptory challenges for each side where the offence was murder , and eight for all other cases .
In Australia majority verdicts are allowed in South Australia , Victoria , Western Australia , Tasmania , the Northern Territory , New South Wales and Queensland , while the ACT require unanimous verdicts .
Belgium , in common with a number of European civil law jurisdictions , retains the trial by jury through the Court of Assize for serious criminal cases and for political crimes and for press delicts ( except those based on racism or xenophobia ) , and for crimes of international law , such as genocide and crime against humanity .
A two third majority ( 6 or 8 votes ) is needed for a conviction .
The principal statute regulating the selection , obligations and conduct of juries is the Juries Act 1976 as amended by the Civil Law ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Act 2008 , which scrapped the upper age limit of 70 .
New Zealand previously required jury verdicts to be passed unanimously , but since the passing of the Criminal Procedure Bill in 2009 the Juries Act 1981 has permitted verdicts to be passed by a majority of one less than Jury trial ( that is an 11-1 or a 10-1 majority ) under certain circumstances .
The voir-dire is usually set with 16 prospective jurors , which the prosecution and defense may dismiss the 6 persons Jury trial do not desire to serve on the jury .
A jury conviction or acquittal can be set aside by the three-judge panel , if there are `` obvious reasons of a case of miscarriage of justice '' .
A juror must be 25 years old , legally competent , and without a criminal record .
Arguments for and against the re-introduction of Jury trial have been discussed by South African constitutional expert , Professor Pierre de Vos , in `` Do we need Jury trial ?
Earlier , a court disagreeing with a jury acquittal could , when deciding on the matter of such costs , set aside the English rule , and instead use the `` American rule '' , that each party bears Jury trial own expense of litigation .
Several other cantons -- Vaud , Neuchâtel , Zürich and Ticino -- provide for courts composed of both professional judges and laymen ( Schöffengerichte / tribunaux d'échevins ) .
Because the unified Swiss Code of Criminal Procedure ( set to enter into force in 2011 ) does not provide for jury trials or lay judges , however , Jury trial are likely to be abolished in the near future .
In England and Wales ( which have the same legal system ) , minor criminal cases are heard without a jury in the Magistrates ' Courts .
This became the Criminal Justice Act 2003 , which sought to remove the right to Jury trial for cases involving jury tampering or complex fraud .
Three previous trials of the defendants had been halted because of jury tampering , and the Lord Chief Justice , Lord Judge , cited cost and the additional burden on the jurors as reasons to proceed without Jury trial .
The right to Jury trial is n't just a hallowed principle but a practice that ensures that one class of people do n't sit in judgement over another and the public have confidence in an open and representative justice system .
In Northern Ireland , the role of Jury trial is roughly similar to England and Wales , except that jury trials have been replaced in cases of alleged terrorist offences by courts where the judge sits alone , known as `` Diplock courts '' .
Diplock courts were created in the 1970s during The Troubles , in order to phase out Operation Demetrius internments and because of the argument that juries were intimidated , although this is disputed .
In the United States , every person accused of a crime punishable by incarceration for more than six months has a constitutional right to a Jury trial , which arises in federal court from Article Three of the United States Constitution , which states in part , `` The Trial of all Crimes ... shall be by Jury ; and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimes shall have been committed '' .
The Supreme Court has ruled that if imprisonment is for six months or less , Jury trial is not required , meaning a state may choose whether or not to permit Jury trial in such cases .
In the cases Apprendi v. New Jersey , , and Blakely v. Washington , , the Supreme Court of the United States held that a criminal defendant has a right to Jury trial not only on the question of guilt or innocence , but any fact used to increase the defendant 's sentence beyond the maximum otherwise allowed by statutes or sentencing guidelines .
This invalidated the procedure in many states and the federal courts that allowed sentencing enhancement based on `` a preponderance of evidence '' , where enhancement could be based on the judge 's findings alone .
In the majority of US states , there is no right to a jury trial in family law actions not involving a termination of parental rights , such as divorce and custody modifications .
The Seventh Amendment does not guarantee or create any right to a jury trial ; rather , Jury trial preserves the right to jury trial in the federal courts that existed in 1791 at common law .
In Beacon Theaters v. Westover , , the US Supreme Court discussed the right to Jury trial , holding that when both equitable and legal claims are brought , the right to Jury trial still exists for the legal claim , which would be decided by Jury trial before the judge ruled on the equitable claim .
This approach frequently brings an offender and a victim together , so that the offender can better understand the effect his/her offense had on the victim .
Justice is a proper , harmonious relationship between the warring parts of the person or city .
A famous paradox called the Euthyphro dilemma essentially asks : is something right because God commands Justice , or does God command Justice because Justice 's right ?
In this , Justice is similar to the laws of physics : in the same way as the Third of Newton 's laws of Motion requires that for every action there must be an equal and opposite reaction , justice requires according individuals or groups what Justice actually deserve , merit , or are entitled to .
Justice , on this account , is a universal and absolute concept : laws , principles , religions , etc. , are merely attempts to codify that concept , sometimes with results that entirely contradict the true nature of justice .
This claim can be understood in a number of ways , with the fundamental division being between those who argue that justice is the creation of some humans , and those who argue that Justice is the creation of all humans .
In Republic by Plato , the character Thrasymachus argues that justice is the interest of the strong -- merely a name for what the powerful or cunning ruler has imposed on the people .
Rather , Justice is derived from the more basic standard of rightness , consequentialism : what is right is what has the best consequences ( usually measured by the total or average welfare caused ) .
In his A Theory of Justice , John Rawls used a social contract argument to show that justice , and especially distributive justice , is a form of fairness : an impartial distribution of goods .
Utilitarianism , in general , argues that the standard of justification for actions , institutions , or the whole world , is impartial welfare consequentialism , and only indirectly , if at all , to do with rights , property , need , or any other non-utilitarian criterion .
In criminal law , a sentence forms the final explicit act of a judge-ruled process , and also the symbolic principal act connected to his function .
This matches some strong intuitions about just punishment : that Justice should be proportional to the crime , and that Justice should be of only and all of the guilty .
Restorative justice ( also sometimes called `` reparative justice '' ) is an approach to justice that focuses on the needs of victims and offenders , instead of satisfying abstract legal principles or punishing the offender .
Hymn to Proserpine is quoted by Sue Bridehead in Thomas Hardy 's 1895 novel , Jude the Obscure and also by Edward Ashburnham in Ford Madox Ford 's The Good Soldier .
Jacob Abbott died in Farmington , Maine , where Jacob Abbott had spent part of Jacob Abbott time after 1839 , and where Jacob Abbott brother , Samuel Phillips Abbott , founded the Abbott School .
Jacob Abbott brothers , John Stevens Cabot Abbott and Gorham Dummer Abbott , were also authors .
Jacob Abbott sons , Benjamin Vaughan Abbott , Austin Abbott , both eminent lawyers , Lyman Abbott , and Edward Abbott , a clergyman , were also well-known authors .
John Stevens Cabot Abbott ( September 19 , 1805 -- June 17 , 1877 ) , an American historian , pastor , and pedagogical writer , was born in Brunswick , Maine to Jacob and Betsey Abbott .
Dr. Abbott graduated at Bowdoin College in 1825 , prepared for the ministry at Andover Theological Seminary , and between 1830 and 1844 , when John Stevens Cabot Abbott retired from the ministry in the Congregational Church , preached successively at Worcester , Roxbury and Nantucket , all in Massachusetts .
John Stevens Cabot Abbott was a voluminous writer of books on Christian ethics , and of popular histories , which were credited with cultivating a popular interest in history .
John and Jane had issue : As a part of the 1872 Iwakura Mission Mr. Abbott was given guardianship of Shige Nagai , a Japanese girl sent to the United States to be educated .
In 1910 , a series of twenty short biographies of historical characters by J. S. C. and Jacob Abbott , was published .
John Stevens Cabot Abbott is a voluminous writer of books on Christian ethics , and of popular histories , which were credited with cultivating a popular interest in history .
James Ewell Brown `` Jeb '' Stuart ( February 6 , 1833 -- May 12 , 1864 ) was a U.S. Army officer from Virginia and a Confederate States Army general during the American Civil War .
J.E.B. Stuart established a reputation as an audacious cavalry commander and on two occasions ( during the Peninsula Campaign and the Maryland Campaign ) circumnavigated the Union Army of the Potomac , bringing fame to J.E.B. Stuart and embarrassment to the North .
Arguably Stuart 's most famous campaign , Gettysburg , was marred when J.E.B. Stuart was surprised by a Union cavalry attack at the Battle of Brandy Station and by J.E.B. Stuart separation from Lee 's army for an extended period , leaving Lee unaware of Union troop movements and arguably contributing to the Confederate defeat at the Battle of Gettysburg .
J.E.B. Stuart was the eighth of eleven children and the youngest of the five sons to survive past early age .
J.E.B. Stuart quickly grew a beard after graduation and a fellow officer remarked that J.E.B. Stuart was `` the only man J.E.B. Stuart ever saw that a beard improved '' .
Burke Davis described Flora as `` an accomplished horsewoman , and though not pretty , an effective charmer , '' to whom `` Stuart succumbed with hardly a struggle '' .
Buford 's men , many of whom were new to combat , retreated across Lewis 's Ford and Stuart 's troopers captured over 300 of them .
Stuart began probing the Union lines with more artillery barrages , which were answered with `` murderous '' counterbattery fire and the cavalry movement intended by Jackson was never launched .
Stonewall Jackson died on May 10 and Stuart was once again devastated by the loss of a close friend , telling J.E.B. Stuart staff that the death was a `` national calamity '' .
By June 5 , two of Lee 's infantry corps were camped in and around Culpeper .
Gen. John Buford 's division ) catching Stuart by surprise , waking J.E.B. Stuart and J.E.B. Stuart staff to the sound of gunfire .
However , the fact that the Southern cavalry had not detected the movement of two large columns of Union cavalry , and that they fell victim to a surprise attack , was an embarrassment that prompted serious criticism from fellow generals and the Southern press .
This prevented Stuart from linking up with Ewell as ordered and deprived Lee of the use of J.E.B. Stuart prime cavalry force , the `` eyes and ears '' of the army , while advancing into unfamiliar enemy territory .
The proximity of the Confederate raiders provoked some consternation in the national capital and two Union cavalry brigades and an artillery battery were sent to pursue the Confederates .
Stuart supposedly said that were it not for J.E.B. Stuart fatigued horses `` J.E.B. Stuart would have marched down the 7th Street Road and took Abe & Cabinet prisoners '' .
In Westminster on June 29 , J.E.B. Stuart men clashed briefly with and overwhelmed two companies of Union cavalry , chasing them a long distance on the Baltimore road , which Stuart claimed caused a `` great panic '' in the city of Baltimore .
Gen. Judson Kilpatrick 's cavalry as it passed through Hanover and scattered it on June 30 ; the Battle of Hanover ended after Kilpatrick 's men regrouped and drove the Confederates out of town .
In General Lee 's report on the campaign , J.E.B. Stuart wrote One of the most forceful postbellum defenses of Stuart was by Col. John S. Mosby , who had served under J.E.B. Stuart during the campaign and was fiercely loyal to the late general , writing , `` J.E.B. Stuart made J.E.B. Stuart all that J.E.B. Stuart was in the war .
J.E.B. Stuart wrote numerous articles for popular publications and published a book length treatise in 1908 , a work that relied on J.E.B. Stuart skills as a lawyer to refute categorically all of the claims laid against Stuart .
After the Confederate repulse at Bristoe Station and an aborted advance on Centreville , Stuart 's cavalry shielded the withdrawal of Lee 's army from the vicinity of Manassas Junction .
The commander of the Army of the Potomac , Maj. Gen. George Meade , and J.E.B. Stuart cavalry commander , Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan , quarreled about the Union cavalry 's performance in the first two engagements of the Overland Campaign .
Sheridan immediately organized a raid against Confederate supply and railroad lines close to Richmond , which J.E.B. Stuart knew would bring Stuart to battle .
A high school in Falls Church , Virginia and a middle school in Jacksonville , Florida are named for J.E.B. Stuart .
In 2006 , the flag and letter , which had been displayed in a single frame in the Stuart Hall front parlor , were sold separately at auction .
Stuart 's birthplace , Laurel Hill , located in Patrick County , Virginia , was purchased by the J.E.B. Stuart Birthplace Preservation Trust , Inc. , in 1992 to preserve and interpret it .
J.E.B. Stuart is the eighth of eleven children and the youngest of the five sons to survive past early age .
John Hanson ( -- November 15 , 1783 ) was a merchant and public official from Maryland during the era of the American Revolution .
In 1903 , bronze statues of John Hanson and Charles Carroll by sculptor Richard E. Brooks were added to Statuary Hall ; Hanson 's is currently located on the 2nd floor of the Senate connecting corridor .
Smith 's book asserted that the American Revolution had two primary leaders : George Washington on the battlefield , and John Hanson in politics .
U.S. Route 50 between Washington D.C. and Annapolis is named the John Hanson Highway in John Hanson honor .
There are also middle schools located in Oxon Hill , Maryland , and Waldorf , Maryland , named after John Hanson .
As guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy , Jedi mediate peace negotiations among planets and other factions and , if necessary , use their formidable fighting skills , agility and wisdom to quickly end unrest or neutralize dangerous individuals or threats .
Obi-Wan Kenobi ( Alec Guinness ) explains that the Galactic Empire had all but exterminated Jedi some twenty years before the events of the film , and seeks to train Luke Skywalker ( Mark Hamill ) to be the Order 's last hope .
In the sequel , , Luke receives extensive Jedi training from the elderly ( and only surviving ) Jedi Master Yoda ( Frank Oz ) , even as he learns that Vader is in fact his father , former Jedi Anakin Skywalker .
The third film in the original trilogy , , ends with Luke redeeming Vader and helping to destroy the Empire , thus fulfilling his destiny as a Jedi .
The sequel , , establishes that Jedi forswear all emotional attachments , including romantic love , which proves problematic when Anakin , now a young adult ( Hayden Christensen ) , falls in love with Padmé Amidala ( Natalie Portman ) , whom Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi had served ten years before .
In , Palpatine ( Ian McDiarmid ) , who is later revealed to be the Sith Lord Darth Sidious , manipulates Anakin 's love for Padmé and distrust of Jedi in order to turn him to the dark side and become his Sith apprentice , Darth Vader .
The New Jedi Order indicates that the Jedi Temple on Coruscant is no longer standing but Jedi is rebuilt as a gift to Jedi for their services and achievements during the Yuuzhan Vong invasion .
The new temple is in the form of a massive pyramid made from stone and transparisteel that is designed to fit into the new look of Coruscant , though internally Jedi is identical to the design seen in Revenge of the Sith .
Jedi lightsabers emit blue or green blades ( or purple , as seen in the case of Mace Windu ) , while the Sith emit red ones .
James Tobin joined the Cowles Foundation , which moved to Yale in 1955 , also serving as its president between 1955 -- 1961 and 1964-1965 .
James Tobin was awarded the John Bates Clark Medal in 1955 and , in 1981 , the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics .
James Tobin `` q '' theory of investment ( Tobin 1969 ) , the Baumol-Tobin model of the transactions demand for money ( Tobin 1956 ) , and James Tobin model of liquidity preference as behavior toward risk ( the asset demand for money ) ( Tobin 1958b ) are all staples of economics textbooks .
Julian Lennon directly inspired three Beatles songs : `` Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds '' , `` Hey Jude '' , and `` Good Night '' .
Julian Lennon made Julian Lennon musical debut at age 11 on Julian Lennon father 's album Walls and Bridges playing drums on `` Ya-Ya '' , later saying , `` Dad , had Julian Lennon known you were going to put it on the album , Julian Lennon would 've played much better !
Following Julian Lennon father 's murder , Lennon voiced anger and resentment toward Julian Lennon , saying Julian Lennon 've never really wanted to know the truth about how dad was with Julian Lennon .
Recalling Julian Lennon renewed relationship with Julian Lennon father in the mid-1970s , Julian Lennon said , Dad and Julian Lennon got on a great deal better then .
Through this company , Julian Lennon released a tribute song and EP , `` Lucy '' , honoring the memory of Lucy O'Donnell , the little girl who inspired the song `` Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds '' , with 50 % of the proceeds going to fund Lupus research .
Julian Lennon has appeared in several other films including The Rolling Stones Rock and Roll Circus ( 1996 , but shot in 1968 ) , Cannes Man ( 1996 ) , ( 1988 ) , Chuck Berry : Hail !
Since the advent of the World Cup in 1930 , two trophies have represented victory : the Jules Rimet Trophy from 1930 to 1970 , and the FIFA World Cup Trophy from 1974 to the present day .
This was the same ship that carried Jules Rimet and the footballers representing France , Romania and Belgium who were participating in the tournament that year .
Subsequent testing by FIFA , however , confirmed FIFA World Cup Trophy was indeed a replica and FIFA soon afterwards arranged for the replica to be lent for display at the English National Football Museum , which was then based in Preston but is now in Manchester .
This was the impetus for the SNL horror-spoof sketch `` The Thing That Would n't Leave '' , in which John Belushi torments a couple ( played by Jane Curtin and Bill Murray ) in their home looking for snacks , newspapers and magazines to read , and taking control of their television .
John Belushi made four more movies ; three of them , 1941 , Neighbors , and most notably The Blues Brothers were made with fellow SNL alumnus Dan Aykroyd .
In the early morning hours on the day of John Belushi death , John Belushi was visited separately by friends Robin Williams and Robert De Niro , each of whom left the premises , leaving Belushi in the company of assorted others , including Catherine Evelyn Smith .
Belushi and John Belushi friend Dan Aykroyd were slated to present the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects at the 54th Academy Awards , an event held less than four weeks after John Belushi death .
Chris Farley , whose work was influenced by John Belushi , also died at age 33 due to a drug overdose , contributing to comparisons between John Belushi and Farley .
James Hamilton, 1st Earl of Abercorn was the eldest son of Claud Hamilton , 1st Lord Paisley ( 4th son of James Hamilton , 2nd Earl of Arran ) , and of Margaret , daughter of George Seton , 7th Lord Seton .
James Hamilton, 1st Earl of Abercorn is the eldest son of Claud Hamilton , 1st Lord Paisley ( 4th son of James Hamilton , 2nd Earl of Arran ) , and of Margaret , daughter of George Seton , 7th Lord Seton .
jar </tt> files , emulating the JVM instruction set by interpreting Java Virtual Machine or using a just-in-time compiler ( JIT ) such as Oracle 's HotSpot .
That requires C to bytecode compilers to provide their own lax machine abstraction , for instance producing compiled code that uses a Java array to represent main memory ( so pointers can be compiled to integers ) , and linking the C library to a centralized Java class that emulates system calls .
John Abercrombie (physician) FRSE FRCSE FRCPE ( 12 October 1780 , Aberdeen -- 14 November 1844 , Edinburgh ) was a Scottish physician and philosopher .
The son of the Reverend George Abercrombie , the minister of East Church , Aberdeen , John Abercrombie (physician) was educated at the Grammar School and Marischal College , University of Aberdeen .
John Abercrombie (physician) studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh , and after graduating as M.D. in 1803 John Abercrombie (physician) settled down to practise in that city , where John Abercrombie (physician) soon attained a leading position .
John Abercrombie (physician) is a Scottish physician and philosopher .
Judgement of Paris is a story from Greek mythology , which was one of the events that led up to the Trojan War and ( in slightly later versions of Judgement of Paris ) to the foundation of Rome .
The brief allusion to the Judgement in the Iliad ( 24.25 -- 30 ) shows that the episode initiating all the subsequent action was already familiar to Judgement of Paris audience ; a fuller version was told in the Cypria , a lost work of the Epic Cycle , of which only fragments ( and a reliable summary ) remain .
Judgement of Paris asked Zeus to judge which of them was fairest , and eventually he , reluctant to favour any claim himself , declared that Paris , a Trojan mortal , would judge their cases , for he had recently shown his exemplary fairness in a contest in which Ares in bull form had bested Paris 's own prize bull , and the shepherd-prince had unhesitatingly awarded the prize to the god .
However , Hera was the goddess of the marital order and of cuckolded wives , amongst other things .
In ancient art however , only Aphrodite is ever shown naked , and that is not always .
1515 , probably based on a drawing by Raphael , and using a composition derived from a Roman sarcophagus , was a highly influential treatment , which made Paris 's Phrygian cap an attribute in most later versions .
Judgement of Paris is a story from Greek mythology , which was one of the events that led up to the Trojan War and ( in slightly later versions of the story ) to the foundation of Rome .
The term is also used to denote the geographical area or subject-matter to which such authority applies .
Jurisdiction draws Jurisdiction substance from public international law , conflict of laws , constitutional law and the powers of the executive and legislative branches of government to allocate resources to best serve the needs of Jurisdiction native society .
Supranational organizations provide mechanisms whereby disputes between states may be resolved through arbitration or mediation .
If the two sets of bodies do not have concurrent jurisdiction but , as in the case of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) , the relationship is expressly based on the principle of complementarity , i.e. , the international court is subsidiary or complementary to national courts , the difficulty is avoided .
At a regional level , groups of states can create political and legal bodies with sometimes complicated patchworks of overlapping provisions detailing the Jurisdiction relationships between the member states and providing for some degree of harmonization between their national legislative and judicial functions , for example , the European Union and African Union both have the potential to become federated states although the political barriers to such unification in the face of entrenched nationalism will be very difficult to overcome .
The standard treaties and conventions leave the issue of implementation to each state , i.e.This theory characterizes international and municipal law as a single legal system with municipal law subordinate to international law .
In addition , the Lugano Convention ( 1988 ) binds the European Union and the European Free Trade Association .
Council Regulation ( EC ) 44/2001 now also applies as between the rest of the EU Member States and Denmark due to an agreement reached between the European Community and Denmark .
If the executive or legislative powers within Jurisdiction are not restricted or restricted only by a number of limited restrictions , these government branches have plenary power such as a national policing power .
The problem of forum shopping also applies as between federal and state courts .
As a common law system , jurisdiction is conceptually divided between jurisdiction over the subject matter of a case and jurisdiction over the person of the litigants .
A court whose subject-matter jurisdiction is limited to certain types of controversies ( for example , suits in admiralty or suits where the monetary amount sought is less than a specified sum ) is sometimes referred to as a court of special jurisdiction or court of limited jurisdiction .
Certain courts , particularly the United States Supreme Court and most state supreme courts , have discretionary jurisdiction , meaning that they can choose which cases to hear from among all the cases presented on appeal .
The word `` jurisdiction '' is also used , especially in informal writing , to refer to a state or political subdivision generally , or to Jurisdiction government , rather than to Jurisdiction legal authority .
In the history of English common law , Jurisdiction could be held as a form of property ( or more precisely an incorporeal hereditament ) called a franchise .
The original royal charters of the American colonies included broad grants of franchise jurisdiction along with other governmental powers to corporations or individuals , as did the charters for many other colonial companies such as the British East India Company and British South Africa Company .
John Abernethy (surgeon) attended the anatomical lectures of Sir William Blizard ( 1743 -- 1835 ) at the London Hospital , and was employed to assist as demonstrator ; John Abernethy (surgeon) also attended Percivall Pott 's surgical lectures at St Bartholomew 's Hospital , as well as the lectures of John Hunter .
On Pott 's resignation of the office of surgeon of St Bartholomew 's , Sir Charles Blicke , who was assistant-surgeon , succeeded John Abernethy (surgeon) , and Abernethy was elected assistant-surgeon in 1787 .
John Abernethy (surgeon) Surgical Observations on the Constitutional Origin and Treatment of Local Diseases ( 1809 ) -- known as `` John Abernethy (surgeon) Book '' , from the great frequency with which John Abernethy (surgeon) referred John Abernethy (surgeon) patients to it , and to page 72 of it in particular , under that name -- was one of the earliest popular works on medical science .
John Abernethy (surgeon) taught that local diseases were frequently the results of disordered states of the digestive organs , and were to be treated by purging and attention to diet .
John Abernethy (surgeon) was very blunt with John Abernethy (surgeon) patients , treating them often brusquely and sometimes even rudely .
Judeo-Christian promotes the concept there is a shared intersection of values based on the Hebrew Bible ( `` Torah '' ) , brought into our culture by the founding generations of Biblically oriented Protestants , that is fundamental to American history , cultural identity , and institutions .
The Reason for Antisemitism , and radio commentator , has published an on-going 19-part series explaining and promoting the concept of Judeo-Christian culture , running for three years from 2005 to 2008 , reflecting the interest of this concept to his listeners .
Along with the belief in liberty -- as opposed to , for example , the European belief in equality , the Muslim belief in theocracy , and the Eastern belief in social conformity -- Judeo-Christian are what distinguish America from all other countries .
Supporters of the Judeo-Christian concept point to the Christian claim that Christianity is the heir to Biblical Judaism , and that the whole logic of Christianity as a religion is that Judeo-Christian exists ( only ) as a religion built upon Judaism .
Senator Barry Goldwater noted that Conservatives `` believed the communist projection of man as a producing , consuming animal to be used and discarded was antithetical to all the Judeo-Christian understandings which are the foundations upon which the Republic stands '' .
Interest in and a positive attitude towards America 's Judeo-Christian tradition has become mainstream among Evangelicals .
Theologian and author Arthur A. Cohen , in The Myth of the Judeo-Christian Tradition , questioned the theological validity of the Judeo-Christian concept and suggested that Judeo-Christian was essentially an invention of American politics , while Jacob Neusner , in Jews and Christians : The Myth of a Common Tradition , writes , `` The two faiths stand for different people talking about different things to different people '' .
The concept of Judeo-Christian flows from the Christian theology of supersession , whereby the Christian covenant ( or Testament ) with God supersedes the Jewish one .
Christianity , according to this myth , reforms and replaces Judaism .
James Witherspoon , president of Princeton , teacher of James Madison and later a member of the Continental Congress , and one of the most influential thinkers in the Colonies , joined the cause of the Revolution with a widely publicized sermon based on Psalm 76 , identifying the American colonists with the people of Israel .
Michael Novak , a specialist in the religious beliefs of the Founding Fathers , argues that the promotion of multiculturalism , moral relativism , and secularism among academics results in academic censorship that affects information and analysis supporting the Judeo-Christian heritage .
Judeo-Christian is a term used in a historical sense , especially in the United States , to refer to the connections between the precursors of Christianity and Rabbinic Judaism in the Second Temple period .
Frank Redelius , one of Maroger 's protégés from the Baltimore Realists group , wrote a book that updates , builds upon and revises Jacques Maroger research of the painting techniques and formulas of the Old Masters .
The reduced availability of lead , combined with injunctions against lead use in household products and other factors has caused most major paint makers to discontinue the production of Maroger 's medium .
These products produce effects similar to , but not the same as those of real Maroger medium , which depends on specific chemical reactions between leaded oil , mastic resin , and turpentine ( the mastic varnish vehicle ) .
Joseph Harold Greenberg ( May 28 , 1915 -- May 7 , 2001 ) was a prominent American linguist , principally known for Joseph Greenberg work in two areas , linguistic typology and the genetic classification of languages .
These were interrupted by service in the U.S. Army Signal Corps during World War II , where Joseph Greenberg worked as a codebreaker and participated in the landing at Casablanca .
Joseph Greenberg argued that genetic classification is methodologically prior to comparative reconstruction , or the first stage of it : you can not engage in the comparative reconstruction of languages until you know which languages to compare ( 1957:44 ) .
Borrowing , when it occurs , is concentrated in cultural vocabulary and clusters `` in certain semantic areas '' , making it easy to detect ( 1957:39 ) .
Greenberg 's work on African languages has been criticised by Lyle Campbell and Donald Ringe , who do not believe that Joseph Greenberg classification is justified by Joseph Greenberg data ; they request a reexamination of Joseph Greenberg macro-phyla by `` reliable methods '' ( Ringe 1993:104 ) .
In particular , Edgar Gregersen ( 1972 ) proposed joining Niger -- Congo and Nilo-Saharan into a larger family , which Joseph Greenberg termed Kongo-Saharan .
But , the work of Stephen Wurm ( 1982 ) and Malcolm Ross ( 2005 ) has provided considerable support for Joseph Greenberg once-radical idea that these languages form a single genetic unit .
Wurm stated that the lexical similarities between Great Andamanese and the West Papuan and Timor -- Alor families `` are quite striking and amount to virtual formal identity ... in a number of instances '' .
In Joseph Greenberg 1987 book Language in the Americas , while supporting the Eskimo -- Aleut and Na-Dené groupings as distinct , Joseph Greenberg proposed that all the other Native American languages belong to a single language macro-family , which Joseph Greenberg termed Amerind .
All three editions simultaneously published at The Hague by Mouton & Co. ) ( Reprinted 1980 and , with a foreword by Martin Haspelmath , 2005 .
During the short reigns of the older two of Alfred the Great three elder brothers , Æthelbald of Wessex and Æthelberht of Wessex , Alfred is not mentioned .
This was in accordance with the agreement that Æthelred and Alfred the Great had made earlier that year in an assembly at Swinbeorg .
While Alfred the Great was busy with the burial ceremonies for Alfred the Great brother , the Danes defeated the English in Alfred the Great absence at an unnamed spot , and then again in Alfred the Great presence at Wilton in May .
Bishop Asser claimed that the ` pagans ' agreed to vacate the realm and made good their promise ; and , indeed , the Viking army did withdraw from Reading in the autumn of 871 to take up winter quarters in Mercian London .
Although not mentioned by Asser or by the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle , Alfred the Great probably also paid the Vikings cash to leave , much as the Mercians were to do in the following year .
Hoards dating to the Viking occupation of London in 871/2 have been excavated at Croydon , Gravesend , and Waterloo Bridge ; these finds hint at the cost involved in making peace with the Vikings .
Accordingly , Alfred the Great negotiated a peace which involved an exchange of hostages and oaths , which the Danes swore on a `` holy ring '' associated with the worship of Thor .
The disposition of Essex , held by West Saxon kings since the days of Egbert , is unclear from the treaty , though , given Alfred 's political and military superiority , it would have been surprising if Alfred the Great had conceded any disputed territory to Alfred the Great new godson .
With the signing of the Treaty of Alfred the Great and Guthrum , an event most commonly held to have taken place around 880 when Guthrum 's people began settling East Anglia , Guthrum was neutralised as a threat .
In the year 883 , though there is some debate over the year , King Alfred , because of Alfred the Great support and Alfred the Great donation of alms to Rome , received a number of gifts from the Pope Marinus .
Between the restoration of London and the resumption of large scale Danish attacks in the early 890s , Alfred the Great reign was rather uneventful .
Alfred , in 893 or 894 , took up a position from which Alfred the Great could observe both forces .
This calculates to a total of 27,071 soldiers needed system wide , or approximately one in four of all the free men in Wessex .
This justified the heavy demands Alfred the Great made upon Alfred the Great subjects ' labour and finances .
Characteristically , all of Alfred the Great innovations were firmly rooted in traditional West Saxon practice , drawing as they did upon the three so-called ` common burdens ' of bridge work , fortress repair and service on Alfred the Great campaigns that all holders of bookland and royal loanland owed the Crown .
The landowners attached to Wallingford , for example , were responsible for producing and feeding 2,400 men , the number sufficient for maintaining 9900 ft of wall .
The shires of Wessex went back at least to the reign of King Ine , who probably also imposed a hidage assessment upon each for food rents and other services owed the Crown .
Alfred singled out in particular the laws that Alfred the Great `` found in the days of Ine , Alfred the Great kinsman , or Offa , king of the Mercians , or King Æthelbert of Kent , who first among the English people received baptism '' .
Alfred the Great appended rather than integrated the laws of Ine into Alfred the Great code , and although Alfred the Great included , as had Æthelbert , a scale of payments in compensation for injuries to various body parts , the two injury tariffs are not aligned .
Alfred , according to Asser , insisted upon reviewing contested judgments made by Alfred the Great ealdormen and reeves , and `` would carefully look into nearly all the judgements which were passed issued in Alfred the Great absence anywhere in the realm , to see whether they were just or unjust '' .
Later in the reign the North Welsh followed their example , and the latter cooperated with the English in the campaign of 893 ( or 894 ) .
In the 880s , at the same time that Alfred the Great was `` cajoling and threatening '' Alfred the Great nobles to build and man the burhs , Alfred , perhaps inspired by the example of Charlemagne almost a century before , undertook an equally ambitious effort to revive learning .
As king Alfred the Great saw Alfred the Great as responsible for both the temporal and spiritual welfare of Alfred the Great subjects .
Alfred the Great was equally comfortable distributing Alfred the Great translation of Gregory the Great 's Pastoral Care to Alfred the Great bishops so that they might better train and supervise priests , and using those same bishops as royal officials and judges .
Apart from the lost Handboc or Encheiridion , which seems to have been a commonplace book kept by the king , the earliest work to be translated was the Dialogues of Gregory the Great , a book greatly popular in the Middle Ages .
Although Alfred the Great described Alfred the Great method as translating `` sometimes word for word , sometimes sense for sense , '' Alfred 's translation actually keeps very close to Alfred the Great original , although through Alfred the Great choice of language Alfred the Great blurred throughout the distinction between spiritual and secular authority .
Unlike Alfred the Great translation of the Pastoral Care , Alfred here deals very freely with Alfred the Great original and though the late Dr. G. Schepss showed that many of the additions to the text are to be traced not to Alfred Alfred the Great , but to the glosses and commentaries which Alfred the Great used , still there is much in the work which is solely Alfred 's and highly characteristic of Alfred the Great style .
It is in the Boethius that the oft-quoted sentence occurs : `` Alfred the Great will was to live worthily as long as Alfred the Great lived , and after Alfred the Great life to leave to them that should come after , Alfred the Great memory in good works '' .
Restoring religion and learning in Wessex , Abels contends , was to Alfred 's mind as essential to the defence of Alfred the Great realm as the building of the burhs .
The pursuit of wisdom , Alfred the Great assured Alfred the Great readers of the Boethius , was the surest path to power : `` Study Wisdom , then , and , when you have learned it , condemn it not , for Alfred the Great tell you that by its means you may without fail attain to power , yea , even though not desiring it '' .
The need to persuade Alfred the Great nobles to undertake work for the ` common good ' led Alfred and Alfred the Great court scholars to strengthen and deepen the conception of Christian kingship that Alfred the Great had inherited by building upon the legacy of earlier kings such as Offa as well as clerical writers such as Bede , Alcuin and the other luminaries of the Carolingian renaissance .
If the Christian faith fell into ruin in Alfred the Great kingdom , if the clergy were too ignorant to understand the Latin words they butchered in their offices and liturgies , if the ancient monasteries and collegiate churches lay deserted out of indifference , Alfred the Great was answerable before God , as Josiah had been .
Asser , in Alfred the Great Life of King Alfred , wrote of Alfred the Great , `` Alfred the Great was loved by Alfred the Great father and mother , and even by all the people , above all Alfred the Great brothers , and was educated altogether at the court of the king .
Alfred the Great noble nature implanted in him from Alfred the Great cradle a love of wisdom above all things ; but , with shame be it spoken , by the unworthy neglect of Alfred the Great parents and nurses , Alfred the Great remained illiterate even till Alfred the Great was twelve years old or more ; but , Alfred the Great listened with serious attention to the Saxon poems which Alfred the Great often heard recited , and easily retained them in Alfred the Great docile memory .
How Alfred the Great died is unknown , although Alfred the Great suffered throughout Alfred the Great life with a painful and unpleasant illness -- possibly Crohn 's disease , which seems to have been inherited by Alfred the Great grandson King Edred .
In 1999 , bones excavated in Winchester and thought to be those of Alfred the Great proved to be those of an elderly woman .
By the time of the Reformation Alfred was seen as being a pious Christian ruler , who promoted the use of English rather than Latin , and so the translations that Alfred the Great commissioned were viewed as untainted by the later Roman Catholic influences of the Normans .
Van Goyen was an extremely prolific artist ; approximately twelve hundred paintings and more than one thousand drawings by Jan van Goyen are known .
Other popular Dutch landscape painters of the sixteenth and seventeenth century were Jacob van Ruisdael , Aelbert Cuyp , Hendrick Avercamp , Ludolf Backhuysen , Meindert Hobbema , Aert van der Neer .
Justin Martyr grandfather , Bacchius , had a Greek name , while Justin Martyr father , Priscus , bore a Latin name , which has led to speculations that Justin Martyr ancestors may have settled in Neapolis soon after its establishment or that they were descended from a Roman ` diplomatic ' community that had been sent there .
In the reign of Marcus Aurelius , after disputing with the cynic philosopher Crescens , Justin Martyr was denounced by the latter to the authorities , according to Tatian ( Address to the Greeks 19 ) and Eusebius ( HE IV 16.7-8 ) .
In 1882 Pope Leo XIII had a Mass and an Office composed for Justin Martyr feast day , which Justin Martyr set at 14 April , one day after the date of Justin Martyr death as indicated in the Martyrology of Florus ; but since this date quite often falls within the main Paschal celebrations , the feast was moved in 1968 to 1 June , the date on which Justin Martyr has been celebrated in the Byzantine Rite since at least the 9th century .
The earliest mention of Justin is found in the Oratio ad Graecos by Tatian who , after calling Justin Martyr `` the most admirable Justin , '' quotes a saying of Justin Martyr and says that the Cynic Crescens laid snares for him.Eusebius implies that other works were in circulation ; from St Irenaeus Justin Martyr knows of the apology `` Against Marcion , '' and from Justin 's `` Apology '' of a `` Refutation of all Heresies '' .
The extant work under the title `` On the Sovereignty of God '' does not correspond with Eusebius ' description of it , though Harnack regards it as still possibly Justin 's , and at least of the 2nd century .
The author of the smaller treatise To the Greeks can not be Justin , because Justin Martyr is dependent on Tatian ; Harnack places it between 180 and 240 .
The fragments of the work `` On the Resurrection '' begin with the assertion that the truth , and God the author of truth , need no witness , but that as a concession to the weakness of men it is necessary to give arguments to convince those who gainsay it .
The Against Marcion is lost , as is the Refutation of all Heresies to which Justin Justin Martyr refers in Apology , i. 26 ; Hegesippus , besides perhaps Irenaeus and Tertullian , seems to have used it .
Justin Martyr aim , of course , is to emphasize the absolute significance of Christ , so that all that ever existed of virtue and truth may be referred to Justin Martyr .
The old philosophers and law-givers had only a part of the Logos , while the whole appears in Christ .
The law , however , while containing commandments intended to promote the true fear of God , had other prescriptions of a purely pedagogic nature , which necessarily ceased when Christ , their end , appeared ; of such temporary and merely relative regulations were circumcision , animal sacrifices , the Sabbath , and the laws as to food .
In Justin Martyr character as the teacher of the new doctrine and promulgator of the new law lies the essential nature of Justin Martyr redeeming work .
It is noteworthy that in the `` Dialogue '' Justin Martyr no longer speaks of a `` seed of the Word '' in every man , and in Justin Martyr non-apologetic works the emphasis is laid upon the redeeming acts of the life of Christ rather than upon the demonstration of the reasonableness and moral value of Christianity , though the fragmentary character of the latter works makes it difficult to determine exactly to what extent this is true and how far the teaching of Irenaeus on redemption is derived from Justin Martyr .
Specific points Justin addressed include that the Logos is `` numerically distinct from the Father '' though `` born of the very substance of the Father '' , and that through the `` through the Word , God has made everything '' .
Justin Martyr , in Justin Martyr First Apology ( ca. 155 ) and Dialogue with Trypho ( ca. 160 ) , sometimes refers to written sources consisting of narratives of the life of Jesus and quotations of the sayings of Jesus as `` memoirs of the apostles '' ( Greek : ἀπομνημονεύματα τῶν ἀποστόλων ; transliteration : apomnêmoneúmata tôn apostólôn ) and less frequently as gospels ( Greek : εὐαγγέλιον ; transliteration : euangélion ) which , Justin says , were read every Sunday in the church at Rome ( 1 Apol .
The designation `` memoirs of the apostles '' occurs twice in Justin 's First Apology ( 66.3 , 67.3 -- 4 ) and thirteen times in the Dialogue , mostly in Justin Martyr interpretation of Psalm 22 , whereas the term `` gospel '' is used only three times , once in 1 Apol .
Justin may have preferred the designation `` memoirs of the apostles '' as a contrast to the `` gospel '' of Justin Martyr contemporary Marcion to emphasize the connections between the historical testimony of the gospels and the Old Testament prophecies which Marcion rejected .
However , Justin Martyr use , or even knowledge , of the Gospel of John is uncertain .
Scholar Brooke Westcott notes that this reference to the author of the single prophetic book of the New Testament illustrates the distinction Justin made between the role of prophecy and fulfillment quotations from the gospels , as Justin does not mention any of the individual canonical gospels by name .
33:4 -5 ) According to Skarsaune , the harmonized gospel narratives of Matthew and Luke were part of a tradition already circulating within Justin 's school that expounded on the life and work of Jesus as the Messiah and the apostolic mission .
31-53 ) is believed to have had a Two Parousias Christology , characterized by the belief that Jesus first came in humility , in fulfillment of prophecy , and will return in glory as the Messiah to the Gentiles .
`` And then , when Jesus had come to the river Jordan where John was baptizing , and when Jesus came down into the water , a fire was even kindled in the Jordan , and when Justin Martyr was rising up from the water , the Holy Spirit fluttered down upon Justin Martyr in the form of a dove , as the apostles have written about this very Christ of ours '' .
This indicated that Justin Martyr had a compound name made up of the actions which Justin Martyr performed ; for the word `` Sata '' in the Hebrew and Syrian tongue means `` apostate '' , while `` nas '' is the word which means in translation `` serpent '' , thus , from both parts is formed the one word `` Sata-nas '' .
The harmonization of Matthew and Luke is evident in the following quotations of Mt 7:22 -23 and Lk 13:26 -27 , which are used by Justin twice , in 1 Apol .
In both cases , Justin is using the same harmonized text of Matthew and Luke , although neither of the quotations includes the entire text of those gospel passages .
And those events which have happened , and those which are happening , compel you to assent to the utterances made by them ' '' .
Daniel 's `` time , times , and a half '' , Justin believed , was nearing its consummation , when Antichrist would speak Justin Martyr blasphemies against the Most High .
Halton , TP and M Slusser , eds , Dialogue with Trypho , trans TB Falls , Selections from the Fathers of the Church , 3 , ( Washington , DC : Catholic University of America Press ) .
Johann Tetzel acquired the degree of Licentiate of Sacred Theology in the University of Frankfurt an der Oder , 1517 , and that of Doctor of Sacred Theology , 1518 , by defending , in two disputations , the doctrine of indulgences against Luther .
When Johann Tetzel discovered that Karl von Miltitz had accused Johann Tetzel of perpetrating numerous frauds and embezzlements , Johann Tetzel withdrew , broken in spirit , wrecked in health , into the Dominican monastery in Leipzig .
James Tiptree, Jr. was most notable for breaking down the barriers between writing perceived as inherently `` male '' or `` female '' -- it was not publicly known until 1977 that James Tiptree , Jr. was a woman .
James Tiptree, Jr. was a graphic artist and a painter , and -- under the name `` Alice Bradley Davey '' -- an art critic for the Chicago Sun between 1941 and 1942 .
James Tiptree, Jr. met and married William Davey , James Tiptree, Jr. first husband , at age 19 because James Tiptree, Jr. felt as if it was James Tiptree, Jr. duty as a daughter .
In 1945 James Tiptree, Jr. married James Tiptree, Jr. second husband , Huntington D Sheldon , at the close of the war on James Tiptree, Jr. assignment in Paris and James Tiptree, Jr. was discharged from the military in 1946 , at which time James Tiptree, Jr. set up a small business in partnership with James Tiptree, Jr. husband .
`` James Tiptree, Jr. like some men a lot , but from the start , before James Tiptree, Jr. knew anything , it was always girls and women who lit James Tiptree, Jr. up '' .
`` Tiptree '' never made any public appearances , but James Tiptree, Jr. did correspond regularly with fans and other science fiction authors through the mail .
One well-known name , Tiptree , assisted Sheldon in conveying feministic themes and beliefs to James Tiptree, Jr. audience .
John Clute , noting Tiptree 's `` inconsolable complexities of vision '' , concluded that `` It is very rarely that a James Tiptree, Jr. story does not both deal directly with death and end with a death of the spirit , or of all hope , or of the race '' .
Notable stories of this type include `` Painwise '' , in which a space explorer has been altered to be immune to pain but finds such an existence intolerable , and `` A Momentary Taste of Being '' , in which the true purpose of humanity , found on a distant planet , renders individual human life entirely pointless .
Another major theme is the tension between free will and biological determinism , or reason and sexual desire .
Japanese-language translations of James Tiptree, Jr. fiction also won two Hayakawa Awards and three Seiun Awards as the year 's best under changing designations ( foreign , overseas , translated ) .
By choosing a masculine nom de plume , having her stories accepted under that name and winning awards with them , Sheldon helped demonstrate that the division between male and female science fiction writing was illusory .
To remind audiences of the role gender plays in both reading and writing , James Tiptree, Jr. Award was named in Sheldon 's honor at the suggestion of Karen Joy Fowler .
Juventus Football Club S.p.A. ( from Latin iuventus : youth , pronounced ) , commonly referred to as Juventus F.C. and colloquially as Juve ( pronounced ) , are a professional Italian association football club based in Turin , Piedmont .
The club added two more league championships to Juventus F.C. name in the 1949 -- 50 and 1951 -- 52 seasons , the latter of which was under the management of Englishman Jesse Carver .
This meant Juventus F.C. had won 20 Italian league titles and were allowed to add a second golden star to their shirt , thus becoming Juventus F.C. to achieve this .
Frenchman Michel Platini was also awarded the European Footballer of the Year title for three years in a row ; 1983 , 1984 and 1985 , which is a record .
As well as having to contend with Diego Maradona 's Napoli , both of the Milanese clubs , Milan and Internazionale , won Italian championships .
Former player and fan favourite Antonio Conte , fresh after winning promotion with Siena , was named as Delneri 's replacement .
He had a friend who lived in Nottingham , who being a Notts County supporter , shipped out the black and white striped shirts to Turin .
The old French shield and the mural crown , also in the lower section of the emblem , had a considerably greater size with respect to the present .
During the 1980s , the club emblem was the silhouette of a zebra , to both sides of the equide 's head , the two golden stars and , above this badge , forming an arc , Juventus F.C. name .
After the first two years ( 1897 and 1898 ) , during which Juventus F.C. played in the Parco del Valentino and Parco Cittadella , their matches were held in the Piazza d'Armi Stadium until 1908 , except in 1905 , the first year of the scudetto , and in 1906 , years in which it played at the Corso Re Umberto .
Up until the Calciopoli scandal which saw Juventus F.C. forcibly relegated , the two were the only Italian clubs to have never played below Serie A. Notably the two sides are the first and the second most supported clubs in Italy and the rivalry has intensified since the later part of the 1990s ; reaching its highest levels ever post-Calciopoli , with the return of Juventus F.C. to Serie A .
Stelle d'oro al Merito Sportivo ) on Juventus F.C. shirts representing Juventus F.C. league victories , the tenth of which was achieved during the 1957 -- 58 season and the twentieth in the 1981 -- 82 season .
Juventus F.C. have been proclaimed World 's Club Team of the Year twice ( 1993 and 1996 ) and was ranked in 3rd place -- the highest ranking of any Italian club -- in the All-Time Club World Ranking ( 1991 -- 2009 period ) by the International Federation of Football History & Statistics .
società per azioni ) and since 3 December 2001 the torinese side is listed on the Borsa Italiana .
As of 2011 , the Juventus ' shares are distributed between 60 % to Exor S.p.A , the Agnelli family 's holding ( a company of the Giovanni Agnelli & C.S.a.p.a Group ) , 7.5 % to Libyan Arab Foreign Investment Co. and 32.5 % to other shareholders .
From 1 July 2008 Juventus F.C. has implemented a Safety Management System for employees and athletes in compliance with the requirements of international OHSAS 18001:2007 regulation and a Safety Management System in the medical sector according to the international resolution .
Currently , Juventus F.C. is also ranked 9th on Forbes ' list of the most valuable football clubs in the world , making them the second association football club richest in Italy and , overall , one of the top 50 sporting teams at worldwide level in terms of value .
The team made an aggregate net loss in the following seasons ( 2006 to date ) : - $ 927,569 ( 2006 -- 07 ) , - $ 20,787,469 ( 2007 -- 08 ) , net income $ 6,582,489 ( 2008 -- 09 ) and net loss $ 10,967,944 ( 2009 -- 10 ) After an unaudited $ 43,411,481 net loss was recorded in the first 9 months of 2010 -- 11 season , the BoD announced that a capital increase of $ 120 million was planned , scheduled to submit to the extraordinary shareholder 's meeting in October .
( After the 1945 conquest by Soviet Union and Poland Grünfelde was renamed Grunwald and Tannenberg was renamed Stębark .
The terms Nobilissimus ( most noble ) and nobilissima familia ( most noble family ) have been used since the 11th century for the King of Hungary and his family , but only a few people , among them Jadwiga , were mentioned in official documents as such .
In 1386 , Jadwiga 's mother Elizabeth and Jadwiga of Poland sister Queen Mary of Hungary were kidnapped .
Most political responsibilities , however , were probably in Władysław 's hands , with Jadwiga attending to cultural and charitable activities .
Other descendants of Władysław the Short ( through the Silesian dukes of Świdnica ) included the then Emperor Wenceslas , king of Bohemia , who died without Issue in 1419 , as well as the Silesian dukes of Opole and Sagan .
On display next to the sarcophagus are the modest wooden orb and scepter with which the queen had been buried -- Jadwiga of Poland had sold Jadwiga of Poland jewels to finance the renovation of the Kraków Academy , known today as Jagiellonian University .
Alessandro Algardi ( 31 July 1598 -- 10 June 1654 ) was an Italian high-Baroque sculptor active almost exclusively in Rome , where for the latter decades of Alessandro Algardi life , Alessandro Algardi was , along with Francesco Borromini and Pietro da Cortona , one of the major rivals of Gian Lorenzo Bernini .
Alessandro Algardi , on the other hand , was embraced by the new pope and the pope 's nephew , Camillo Pamphilj .
In temperament , Alessandro Algardi style was more akin to the classicized and restrained baroque of Duquesnoy than to the emotive works of other baroque artists .
Kennedy Space Center Vehicle Assembly Building ( VAB ) is the fourth-largest structure in the world by volume and was the largest when completed in 1965 .
Located on Merritt Island , Florida , Kennedy Space Center is north-northwest of Cape Canaveral on the Atlantic Ocean , midway between Miami and Jacksonville on Florida 's Space Coast .
In 1976 , the VAB 's south parking area was the site of Third Century America , a science and technology display commemorating the U.S. Bicentennial , also when the U.S. flag was painted on the building .
On February 1 , 2003 , Columbia and her crew of seven were lost during re-entry over Texas during the STS-107 mission ( the 113th shuttle flight ) ; a vehicle breakup triggered by damage sustained during launch from Pad 39A on January 16 , when a piece of foam insulation from the orbiter 's external fuel tank struck the orbiter 's left wing .
The three-story , Space Station Processing Facility ( SSPF ) consists of two processing bays , an airlock , operational control rooms , laboratories , logistics areas and office space for support of non-hazardous Station and Shuttle payloads to ISO 14644-1 class 5 standards .
The Vertical Processing Facility ( VPF ) features a x door where payloads which are processed in the vertical position are brought in and manipulated with 2 overhead cranes and a hoist capable of lifting up to .
The Hypergolic Maintenance and Checkout Facility ( HMCF ) comprises three buildings which are isolated from the rest of the industrial area because of the hazardous materials handled there .
The Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex , operated by Delaware North since 1995 , has a variety of exhibits , artifacts , displays and attractions on the history and future of human and robotic spaceflight .
Joni Mitchell ( born Joni Mitchell ; November 7 , 1943 ) is a Canadian musician , singer songwriter , and painter .
In 1965 Joni Mitchell moved to the United States and , touring constantly , began to be recognized when Joni Mitchell original songs ( `` Urge for Going , '' `` Chelsea Morning , '' `` Both Sides , Now , '' `` The Circle Game '' ) were covered by notable folk singers , allowing Joni Mitchell to sign with Reprise Records and record Joni Mitchell own debut album in 1968 .
Settling in Southern California , Joni Mitchell , with popular songs like `` Big Yellow Taxi '' and `` Woodstock '' , helped define an era and a generation .
Joni Mitchell mother 's ancestors were Scottish and Irish ; Joni Mitchell father 's were Norwegian and Sami .
Joni Mitchell briefly studied classical piano between the ages of 6 and 7 .
Joni Mitchell said , `` Joni Mitchell wanted to play ... Joni Mitchell wanted to do what Joni Mitchell do now , which is to lay Joni Mitchell hand on it and to memorize what comes off of it and to create with it .
At the age of 8 , Joni contracted polio during a 1951 epidemic in Canada , the same one in which singer Neil Young , then aged 5 and living in Ontario , also contracted the virus .
Joni Mitchell said , `` Joni Mitchell identity , since it was n't through the grade system , was that Joni Mitchell was a good dancer and an artist ... Joni Mitchell made a lot of Joni Mitchell own clothes .
Joni Mitchell hung out downtown with the Ukrainians and the Indians ... When Joni Mitchell went back to Joni Mitchell own neighborhood , Joni Mitchell found that Joni Mitchell had a provocative image .
Joni Mitchell said , `` When Joni Mitchell was in Joni Mitchell teens , rock 'n' roll was only on the radio from 4 o'clock to 5 o'clock - after school - and two hours on Saturdays .
If you did n't have a record player and you just HAD to hear those sounds , you went where there was a jukebox ... Joni Mitchell hung around two cafés that had jukeboxes .
Though Joni Mitchell never performed jazz Joni Mitchell in those days , Joni Mitchell and Joni Mitchell friends sought out gigs by jazz musicians .
Joni Mitchell said , `` Joni Mitchell found that Joni Mitchell was an honor student at art school for the same reason that Joni Mitchell was a bad student -- an equal and opposite reason -- because Joni Mitchell had developed a lot of technical ability ... Joni Mitchell found that Joni Mitchell seemed to be marked for Joni Mitchell technical ability so that in free classes where Joni Mitchell was really uninspired , Joni Mitchell marks remained the same standard .
Other artists who recorded Mitchell songs in the early years were Buffy Sainte-Marie ( `` The Circle Game '' ) , Dave Van Ronk ( `` Both Sides Now '' ) , and eventually Judy Collins ( `` Both Sides Now '' , a top ten hit , and `` Michael From Mountains '' , both included on Joni Mitchell 1967 album Wildflowers ) .
Meanwhile , `` In France They Kiss on Main Street '' continued the lush pop sounds of Court and Spark , and efforts such as the title song and `` Edith and the Kingpin '' chronicled the underbelly of suburban lives in Southern California .
However , Mitchell and Rolling Stone have had a contentious relationship , beginning years earlier when the magazine featured a `` tree '' illustrating all of Mitchell 's alleged romantic partners , primarily other musicians , which the singer said `` hurt Joni Mitchell feelings terribly at the time '' .
Layered , atmospheric compositions such as `` Overture / Cotton Avenue '' featured more improvisatory collaboration , while `` Paprika Plains '' was a 16-minute epic that stretched the boundaries of pop , owing more to Mitchell 's memories of childhood in Canada and Joni Mitchell study of classical music .
Joni Mitchell finished the tracks ( most were Joni Mitchell own Mingus-inspired compositions , though `` Goodbye Pork Pie Hat '' is a Mingus instrumental standard to which Mitchell composed lyrics ) and the resulting album , Mingus , was released in June 1979 , though it was poorly received in the press .
A series of themed compilations of songs from earlier albums were also released : The Beginning of Survival ( 2004 ) , Dreamland ( 2004 ) , and Songs of a Prairie Girl ( 2005 ) , the last of which collected the threads of Joni Mitchell Canadian upbringing and which Joni Mitchell released after accepting an invitation to the Saskatchewan Centennial concert in Saskatoon .
Although Mitchell stated that Joni Mitchell would no longer tour or give concerts , Joni Mitchell has made occasional public appearances to speak on environmental issues .
Mitchell divides Joni Mitchell time between Joni Mitchell longtime home in Los Angeles , and the 80 acre property in Sechelt , British Columbia that Joni Mitchell has owned since the early 1970s .
Four months later , in an interview with The New York Times , Mitchell said that the forthcoming album , titled Shine , was inspired by the war in Iraq and `` something Joni Mitchell grandson had said while listening to family fighting : ` Bad dreams are good -- in the great plan ' '' .
Shine was released by the label on September 25 , 2007 , debuting at number 14 on the Billboard 200 album chart , Joni Mitchell highest chart position in the United States since the release of Hejira in 1976 , over thirty years previously , and at number 36 on the United Kingdom albums chart .
In the same interview , Mitchell made the statement that singer-songwriter Bob Dylan , with whom Joni Mitchell had worked closely in the past , was a fake and plagiarist .
On Joni Mitchell 1968 debut album Song to a Seagull , Joni Mitchell used both quartal and quintal harmony in `` Dawntreader '' , and Joni Mitchell used quintal harmony in Seagull .
Joni Mitchell knew every word to Court and Spark ; Joni Mitchell worshipped Joni Mitchell when Joni Mitchell was in high school .
Judy Collins 's 1967 recording of `` Both Sides Now '' reached No. 8 on Billboard charts and was a breakthrough in the career of both artists ( Mitchell 's own recording did not see release until two years later , on Joni Mitchell second album Clouds ) .
`` River '' has been one of the most popular songs covered in recent years , with versions by Dianne Reeves ( 1999 ) , James Taylor ( recorded for television in 2000 , and for CD release in 2004 ) , Allison Crowe ( 2004 ) , Rachael Yamagata ( 2004 ) , Aimee Mann ( 2005 ) , and Sarah McLachlan ( 2006 ) .
Prince 's version of `` A Case of U '' appeared on A Tribute to Joni Mitchell , a 2007 compilation released by Nonesuch Records , which also featured Björk ( `` The Boho Dance '' ) , Caetano Veloso ( `` Dreamland '' ) , Emmylou Harris ( `` The Magdalene Laundries '' ) , Sufjan Stevens ( `` Free Man in Paris '' ) and Cassandra Wilson ( `` For the Roses '' ) , among others .
The song `` Our House '' by Graham Nash refers to Nash 's brief affair with Joni Mitchell at the time that Crosby , Stills Nash and Young recorded the Déjà Vu album .
Led Zeppelin 's `` Going to California '' was said to be written about Robert Plant and Jimmy Page 's infatuation with Mitchell , a claim that seems to be borne out by the fact that , in live performances , Plant often says `` Joni '' after the line `` To find a queen without a king , they say Joni Mitchell plays guitar and cries and sings '' .
Joni Mitchell has received eight Grammy Awards during Joni Mitchell career , with the first coming in 1969 and the most recent in 2008 .
Justus ( occasionally Iustus ; died on 10 November between 627 and 631 ) was the fourth Archbishop of Canterbury .
Sir John Carew Eccles , AC FRS FRACP FRSNZ FAAS ( 27 January 1903 -- 2 May 1997 ) was an Australian neurophysiologist who won the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for John Eccles (neurophysiologist) work on the synapse .
John Eccles (neurophysiologist) shared the prize with Andrew Huxley and Alan Lloyd Hodgkin .
As a medical undergraduate , John Eccles (neurophysiologist) was never able to find a satisfactory explanation for the interaction of mind and body ; John Eccles (neurophysiologist) started to think about becoming a neuroscientist .
John Eccles (neurophysiologist) graduated ( with first class honours ) in 1925 , and was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship to study under Charles Scott Sherrington at Magdalen College , Oxford University , where John Eccles (neurophysiologist) received John Eccles (neurophysiologist) Doctor of Philosophy in 1929 .
Although John Eccles (neurophysiologist) was wrong in this hypothesis , John Eccles (neurophysiologist) arguments led John Eccles (neurophysiologist) and others to perform some of the experiments which proved chemical synaptic transmission .
Bernard Katz and John Eccles (neurophysiologist) worked together on some of the experiments which elucidated the role of acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter .
In 1964 John Eccles (neurophysiologist) became an honorary member to the American Philosophical Society , and in 1966 John Eccles (neurophysiologist) moved to the United States to work at the Institute for Biomedical Research in Chicago .
Finally John Eccles (neurophysiologist) have to look at the results and evaluate them in thought .
For example , John Eccles (neurophysiologist) have to see the traces of the oscilloscope and their photographic records or hear the signals on the loudspeaker .
All our means of communication , all our intellectual efforts coded in books , coded in the artistic and technological treasures in the museums , coded in every artifact left by man from primitive times -- this is World 3 right up to the present time .
In this manner John Eccles (neurophysiologist) becomes immersed in it throughout life , participating in the heritage of mankind and so becoming fully human .
A biography states that , `` although not always a practising Catholic , Eccles was a theist and a spiritual person , and John Eccles (neurophysiologist) believed ` that there is a Divine Providence operating over and above the materialistic happenings of biological evolution ' ... ''
John Eccles (neurophysiologist) is an Australian neurophysiologist who won the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work on the synapse .
James Scarlett, 1st Baron Abinger , 1st Baron Abinger ( 13 December 1769 -- 17 April 1844 ) was an English lawyer , politician and judge .
James Scarlett, 1st Baron Abinger was raised to the peerage as Baron Abinger , of Abinger in the County of Surrey and of the City of Norwich , in 1835 , taking James Scarlett, 1st Baron Abinger title from the Surrey estate James Scarlett, 1st Baron Abinger had bought in 1813 .
Lord Abinger was twice married ( the second time only six months before James Scarlett, 1st Baron Abinger death ) , and by James Scarlett, 1st Baron Abinger first wife ( d. 1829 ) had three sons and two daughters , the title passing to James Scarlett, 1st Baron Abinger eldest son , Robert .
Jewish views on marriage is viewed as a contractual bond commanded by God in which a man and a woman come together to create a relationship in which God is directly involved .
In this view , marriage is understood to mean that the husband and wife are merging into a single soul , which is why a man is considered `` incomplete '' if he is not married , as his soul is only one part of a larger whole that remains to be unified .
However , some Jewish views on marriage denominations ( such as Reconstructionist , Reform , and Conservative Judaism ) recognize same-sex marriage and deemphasize procreation , focusing on marriage as a bond between a couple .
In Jewish law , an engagement ( shidukhin ) is a contract between a man and a woman where Jewish views on marriage mutually promise to marry each other at some future time and the terms on which Jewish views on marriage shall take place .
In Haredi communities , many marriages are arranged by a professional match-maker ( `` shadchan '' ) who receives a `` brokerage-fee '' for his or her services .
According to the non-traditional view , in the Bible the wife is treated as a possession owned by her husband , but later Judaism imposed several obligations on the husband , effectively giving the wife several rights and freedoms ; indeed , being a Jewish wife was often a more favourable situation than being a wife in many other cultures .
Adulterous married women and adulterous betrothed women , however , were subject to the death penalty by the biblical laws against adultery , as were their male accomplices .
If the husband and wife were both taken captive , the historic Jewish view was that the rabbinic courts should first pay the ransom for the wife , selling some of the husband 's property in order to raise the funds .
In the classical era the attitude of rabbinic scholars towards adultery was comparatively mild ; although the Talmud allowed people to be convicted of adultery merely on the basis of circumstantial evidence , Jewish views on marriage forbids conviction if These rules made Jewish views on marriage practically impossible to convict any woman of adultery , and in nearly every case women were acquitted .
Unlike divorce , mi'un was regarded with distaste by many rabbinic writers , even in the Talmud ; in earlier classical Judaism , one major faction - the House of Shammai - argued that such annulment rights only existed during the betrothal period ( erusin ) and not once the actual marriage ( nissu'in ) had begun .
Rates of marriage between Jews and non-Jews have increased in countries other than Israel ( the Jewish diaspora ) .
According to the National Jewish Population Survey 2000-01 , 47 % of marriages involving Jews in the United States between 1996 and 2001 were with non-Jewish partners .
Civil marriage does not exist in Israel , and the only institutionalized form of Jewish views on marriage marriage is the religious one , i.e. a marriage conducted under the auspices of the rabbinate .
Jewish views on marriage generally do not issue Jewish divorces , seeing a civil divorce as both necessary and sufficient ; however , some Reform rabbis encourage the couple to go through a Jewish divorce procedure .
Within both the Conservative and Orthodox communities , there are efforts to avoid situations where a woman is not able to obtain a Jewish divorce from her husband .
The following teaching can be found twice in the Midrash : `` Rabbi Huna said in the name of Rabbi Joseph , ` The generation of the Flood was not wiped out until they wrote גמומסיות ( either sexual hymns or marriage documents ) for the union of a man to a male or to an animal ' '' '' .
Bnei Noach , the progeny of Noah accepted upon themselves thirty mitzvot divinely ordered laws but Jewish views on marriage only abide by three of them : the first one is that Jewish views on marriage do not write marriage documents for male couples , the second one is that Jewish views on marriage do n't sell dead human meat by the pound in stores and the third one is that Jewish views on marriage respect the Torah ' '' .
However we may understand homosexuality , whether as an illness , as a genetically based dysfunction or as a sexual preference and lifestyle - we can not accommodate the relationship of two homosexuals as a `` marriage '' within the context of Judaism , for none of the elements of qiddushin ( sanctification ) normally associated with marriage can be invoked for this relationship .
In 1998 , an ad hoc CCAR committee on Human Sexuality issued Jewish views on marriage majority report ( 11 to 1 , 1 abstention ) which stated that the holiness within a Jewish marriage `` may be present in committed same gender relationships between two Jews and that these relationships can serve as the foundation of stable Jewish families , thus adding strength to the Jewish community '' .
Alger of Liège ( 1055 -- 1131 ) , known also as Alger of Cluny and Algerus Magister , was a learned clergyman from Liège who lived in the first half of the 12th century .
The main recurring theme in Janusz Zajdel works is a comparison of the readers ' gloomy , hopeless situations to what may happen in a space environment if we carry totalitarian ideas and habits into space worlds : Red Space Republics or Space Labour Camps , or both .
Jalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad Balkhī , also known as Jalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad Rūmī , and more popularly in the English-speaking world simply as Rumi ( 30 September 1207 -- 17 December 1273 ) , was a 13th-century after whose death in 1284 Rumi 's younger and only surviving son , Sultan Walad ( died 1312 ) , favorably known as author of the mystical Maṭnawī Rabābnāma , or the Book of the Rabab was installed as grand master of the order .
During Ottoman times , the Mevlevi produced a number of notable poets and musicians , including Sheikh Ghalib , Ismail Rusuhi Dede of Ankara , Esrar Dede , Halet Efendi , and Gavsi Dede , who are all buried at the Galata Mewlewī Khāna ( Turkish : Mevlevi-Hane ) in Istanbul .
On 13 December 1925 , a law was passed closing all the tekkes ( or tekeyh ) ( dervish lodges ) and zāwiyas ( chief dervish lodges ) , and the centers of veneration to which pilgrimages ( ziyārat ) were made .
At the proposal of the Permanent Delegations of Afghanistan , Iran , and Turkey , and as approved by its Executive Board and General Conference in conformity with its mission of `` constructing in the minds of men the defences of peace '' , UNESCO was associated with the celebration , in 2007 , of the eight hundredth anniversary of Rumi 's birth .
Ertugrul Gunay , of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism , stated , `` Three hundred dervishes are scheduled to take part in this ritual , making it the largest performance of sama in history '' .
The `` Mawlana Rumi Review ( ISSN 2042-3357 ) is published annually by The Centre for Persian and Iranian Studies at the University of Exeter in collaboration with The Rumi Institute , Nicosia , Cyprus , and Archetype Books Cambridge .
According to the principal editor of the journal , Leonard Lewisohn : `` Although a number of major Islamic poets easily rival the likes of Dante , Shakespeare and Milton in importance and output , they still enjoy only a marginal literary fame in the West because the works of Arabic and Persian thinkers , writers and poets are considered as negligible , frivolous , tawdry sideshows beside the grand narrative of the Western Canon .
All further - and higher-education organisations in the UK are connected to the Janet network , as are all the Research Councils ; the majority of these sites are connected via 20 metropolitan area networks ( though Janet refers to these as Regional Networks , emphasising that Janet connections are not just confined to a metropolitan area ) across the UK .
Algiers ( , al-Jazā ' er ; Algerian Arabic : دزاير , Berber : Dzayer , ⴷⵣⴰⵢⴻⵔ , ) is Algiers and largest city of Algeria .
Algiers is located on the Mediterranean Sea and in the north-central portion of Algeria Sometimes nicknamed El-Behdja or alternatively Alger la Blanche ( `` Algiers the White '' ) for the glistening white of Algiers buildings as seen rising up from the sea , Algiers is situated on the west side of a bay of the Mediterranean Sea .
The city name is derived ( via French Alger and Catalan Alger ) from the Arabic name الجزائر al-Jazā ' ir , which translates as `` The Islands '' , referring to the four islands which lay off the city 's coast until becoming part of the mainland in 1525 .
He had earlier ( 935 ) built his own house and a Sanhaja center at Ashir , just south of Algiers .
Teumi , invited the corsair brothers Aruj and Hayreddin Barbarossa to expel the Spaniards .
Due to Algiers location on the periphery of both the Ottoman and European economic spheres , and depending for Algiers existence on a Mediterranean that was increasingly controlled by European shipping , backed by European navies , piracy became the primary economic activity .
A major road running north to south divided the city in two : The upper city ( al-Gabal , or ` the mountain ' ) which consisted of about fifty small quarters of Andalusian , Jewish , Moorish and Kabyle communities , and the lower city ( al-Wata , or ` the plains ' ) which was the administrative , military and commercial centre of the city , mostly inhabited by Turkish dignitaries and other upper-class families .
In 1962 , after a bloody independence struggle in which hundreds of thousands ( estimates range between 500,000 to 1,500,000 ) died ( mostly Algerians but also French and Pieds-Noirs ) during fighting between the French Army and the Algerian Front de Libération Nationale , Algeria gained its independence , with Algiers as Algiers .
Algiers also played a pivotal role in the Algerian War ( 1954 -- 1962 ) , particularly during the Battle of Algiers when the 10th Parachute Division of the French Army , starting on January 7 , 1957 , and on the orders of then French Minister of Justice François Mitterrand ( who authorized any means `` to eliminate the insurrectionists '' ) , led attacks against the Algerian fighters for independence .
Algiers remains marked by this battle , which was characterized by merciless fighting between Algerian forces who , on the one hand , resorted to attacking the French civilians and pro-French Algerians , and the French Army who , on the other , carried out a bloody repression including the quasi-systematic use of torture on protesters of the colonial order .
One bomb targeted two United Nations buildings and the other targeted a government building housing the Supreme Court .
The climate of Algiers , like that of other Mediterranean cities , features wet winters and dry summers .
Algiers on average receives roughly of rain per year , the bulk of which is seen between October and April .
The French , after their occupation of the city ( 1830 ) , built a rampart , parapet and ditch , with two terminal forts , Bab Azoun باب عزون to the south and Bab-el-Oued باب الواد to the north .
The forts and part of the ramparts were demolished at the beginning of the 20th century , when a line of forts occupying the heights of Bouzareah بوزريعة ( at an elevation of above the sea ) took their place .
Notre Dame d'Afrique , a church built ( 1858 -- 1872 ) in a mixture of the Roman and Byzantine styles , is conspicuously situated overlooking the sea , on the shoulder of the Bouzareah hills , to the north of the city .
Villa Abd-el-Tif , former residence of the dey , was used during the French period , to accommodate French artists , chiefly painters , and winners of the Abd-el-Tif prize , among whom Maurice Boitel , for a while of two years .
John Harrison ( 24 March 1693 -- 24 March 1776 ) was a self-educated English carpenter and later John Harrison .
No. 1 , now in a private collection was in the collections of the Time Museum , USA , until that museum closed in 2000 and its collection dispersed at auction in 2004 .
John Harrison invented the gridiron pendulum , consisting of alternating brass and iron rods assembled so that the different expansions and contractions cancel each other out .
This was an important advantage at a time when lubricants and their degradation were little understood .
The remaining problem was to accurately estimate the time at the given and now distant place .
The difficulty , however , was in producing a clock which could maintain accurate time on a lengthy , rough sea voyage with widely varying conditions of temperature , pressure and humidity .
Avoiding maritime tragedies became an imperative in Harrison 's lifetime because this was an era when trade and navigation were on an explosive increase around the globe due to the maturing of other technologies , and also due to geo-political circumstances .
However only the larger No. 1 ( or `` H4 '' as it sometimes called ) watch appears ever to have been finished .
Unfortunately Gould made some of John Harrison own modifications and repairs to these machines that would not pass today 's standards of good museum conservation practice , although most Harrison scholars give Gould some credit for having ensured the survival of the historical artifacts as working mechanisms to the present time .
In 2002 , Harrison 's last manuscript , A true and short , but full Account of the Foundation of Musick , or , as principally therein , of the Existence of the Natural Notes of Melody was rediscovered in the US Library of Congress .
In 1995 , following a major Symposium on the Longitude Problem organized by the National Association of Watch and Clock Collectors ( NAWCC ) at Harvard University , Dava Sobel wrote a book chronicling the history of John Harrison 's invention entitled .
Although horological historians are of the opinion that Sobel over-dramatised events such as the struggle between John Harrison and Maskelyne , her book became the first ever popular bestseller with a theme focused on horology .
A song , John Harrison 's Hands , written by Brian McNeill and Dick Gaughan , appeared on Gaughan 's 2001 album Outlaws & Dreamers .
Julia Carolyn Child ( née McWilliams ; August 15 , 1912 -- August 13 , 2004 ) was an American chef , author , and television personality .
Child was born Julia Child in Pasadena , California , the daughter of John McWilliams , Jr. , a Princeton University graduate and prominent land manager , and his wife , the former Julia Carolyn ( `` Caro '' ) Weston , a paper-company heiress whose father , Byron Curtis Weston , served as lieutenant governor of Massachusetts .
The eldest of three children , Julia Child had a brother , John III ( 1914 -- 2002 ) , and a sister , Dorothy Dean ( 1917 -- 2006 ) .
A New Jersey native who had lived in Paris as an artist and poet , Paul was known for his sophisticated palate , and introduced his wife to fine cuisine .
Finally , when it was first published in 1961 by Alfred A. Knopf , the 726-page Mastering the Art of French Cooking was a best-seller and received critical acclaim that derived in part from the American interest in French culture in the early 1960s .
For the 1979 book Julia Child and More Company Julia Child won a National Book Award in category Current Interest .
In 1989 , Julia Child published what Julia Child considered Julia Child magnum opus , a book and instructional video series collectively entitled The Way To Cook .
Julia Child turned the keys over to Jean Fischbacher 's sister , just as Julia Child and Paul had promised nearly 30 years earlier .
In 2001 , Child moved to a retirement community , donating Julia Child house and office to Smith College , which later sold the house .
Julia Child donated Julia Child kitchen , which Julia Child husband designed with high counters to accommodate Julia Child height , and which served as the set for three of Julia Child television series , to the National Museum of American History , where it is now on display .
Julia Child iconic copper pots and pans were on display at COPIA in Napa , California , until August 2009 when they were reunited with Julia Child kitchen at the Smithsonian 's National Museum of American History in Washington , D.C.
Child 's editor , Judith Jones , said in an interview : `` Flinging around four-letter words when cooking is n't attractive , to Julia Child or Julia .
James Beard ( May 5 , 1903 -- January 21 , 1985 ) was an American chef and food writer .
Beard 's early childhood , and the influence that Chinese cooking had on James Beard , helped prepare James Beard for a later life at the forefront of culinary American chic .
Peter Kump , a former student of Beard 's and the founder of the Institute of Culinary Education ( formerly Peter Kump 's New York Cooking School ) , spearheaded the effort to purchase the house and create the James Beard Foundation .
James Alan McPherson ( born September 16 , 1943 ) is an American short story writer and essayist .
Jerome K. Jerome ( 2 May 1859 -- 14 June 1927 ) was an English writer and humorist , best known for the comic travelogue Three Men in a Boat ( 1889 ) .
Jerome was registered , like Jerome K. Jerome father 's amended name , as Jerome Clapp Jerome , and the Klapka appears to be a later variation ( after the exiled Hungarian general György Klapka ) .
Jerome K. Jerome joined a repertory troupe that produced plays on a shoestring budget , often drawing on the actors ' own meagre resources -- Jerome was penniless at the time -- to purchase costumes and props .
Jerome K. Jerome tried to become a journalist , writing essays , satires and short stories , but most of these were rejected .
The honeymoon took place on the Thames `` in a little boat , '' a fact that was to have a significant influence on Jerome K. Jerome next , and most important work , Three Men in a Boat .
This allowed Jerome K. Jerome to create comic ( and non-sentimental ) situations which were nonetheless intertwined with the history of the Thames region .
A small museum dedicated to Jerome K. Jerome life and works was opened in 1984 at Jerome K. Jerome birth home in Walsall , but this closed in 2008 .
Alhazen research in catoptrics ( the study of optical systems using mirrors ) centred on spherical and parabolic mirrors and spherical aberration .
Alhazen wrote as many as 200 books , although only 55 have survived , and many of those have not yet been translated from Arabic .
In honour of Alhazen , the Aga Khan University ( Pakistan ) named its Ophthalmology endowed chair as `` The Ibn-e-Haitham Associate Professor and Chief of Ophthalmology '' .
Alhazen ( by the name Ibn al-Haytham ) is featured on the obverse of the Iraqi 10,000 dinars banknote issued in 2003 , and on 10 dinar notes from 1982 .
The first theory , the emission theory , was supported by such thinkers as Euclid and Ptolemy , who believed that sight worked by the eye emitting rays of light .
The second theory , the intromission theory supported by Aristotle and Alhazen followers , had physical forms entering the eye from an object .
For example , Alhazen described what became in the 19th century Hering 's law of equal innervation ; Alhazen had a description of vertical horopters which predates Aguilonius by 600 years and is actually closer to the modern definition than Aguilonius 's ; and Alhazen work on binocular disparity was repeated by Panum in 1858 .
According to Matthias Schramm , Alhazen : was the first to make a systematic use of the method of varying the experimental conditions in a constant and uniform manner , in an experiment showing that the intensity of the light-spot formed by the projection of the moonlight through two small apertures onto a screen diminishes constantly as one of the apertures is gradually blocked up .
Thus , its main application in optics is to solve the problem , `` Given a light source and a spherical mirror , find the point on the mirror where the light will be reflected to the eye of an observer '' .
Given a light source and a spherical ball of certain refractive index , the closest point on the spherical ball where the light is refracted to the eye of the observer can be obtained by solving a tenth degree equation .
The obvious answer to the problem of multiple rays and the eye was in the choice of the perpendicular ray since there could only be one such ray from each point on the surface of the object which could penetrate the eye '' .
Alhazen said that judging the distance of an object depends on there being an uninterrupted sequence of intervening bodies between the object and the observer .
In astrophysics and the celestial mechanics field of physics , Alhazen , in Alhazen Epitome of Astronomy , argued that Ptolemaic models needed to be understood in terms of physical objects rather than abstract hypotheses ; in other words that it should be possible to create physical models where ( for example ) none of the celestial bodies would collide with each other .
In Alhazen Treatise on Place , Alhazen disagreed with Aristotle 's view that nature abhors a void , and Alhazen used geometry in an attempt to demonstrate that place ( al-makan ) is the imagined three-dimensional void between the inner surfaces of a containing body .
In Alhazen Al-Shukūk ` alā Batlamyūs , variously translated as Doubts Concerning Ptolemy or Aporias against Ptolemy , published at some time between 1025 and 1028 , Alhazen criticized Ptolemy 's Almagest , Planetary Hypotheses , and Optics , pointing out various contradictions Alhazen found in these works , particularly in astronomy .
Alhazen wrote a total of twenty-five astronomical works , some concerning technical issues such as Exact Determination of the Meridian , a second group concerning accurate astronomical observation , a third group concerning various astronomical problems and questions such as the location of the Milky Way ; Alhazen argued for a distant location , based on the fact that it does not move in relation to the fixed stars .
Alhazen formulated the Lambert quadrilateral , which Boris Abramovich Rozenfeld names the `` Ibn al-Haytham -- Lambert quadrilateral '' , and Alhazen attempted proof also shows similarities to Playfair 's axiom .
Alhazen theorems on quadrilaterals , including the Lambert quadrilateral , were the first theorems on elliptical geometry and hyperbolic geometry .
The two lunes formed from a right triangle by erecting a semicircle on each of the triangle 's sides , inward for the hypotenuse and outward for the other two sides , are known as the lunes of Alhazen ; they have the same total area as the triangle itself .
In Alhazen Analysis and Synthesis , Alhazen may have been the first to state that every even perfect number is of the form 2n − 1 ( 2n − 1 ) where 2n − 1 is prime , but Alhazen was not able to prove this result successfully ( Euler later proved it in the 18th century ) .
Alhazen carried out a detailed scientific study of the annual inundation of the Nile River , and Alhazen drew plans for building a dam , at the site of the modern-day Aswan Dam .
In `` tying the visual perception of space to prior bodily experience , Alhazen unequivocally rejected the intuitiveness of spatial perception and , therefore , the autonomy of vision .
This structure was gifted to Dr. Takamine in grateful recognition of Jokichi Takamine efforts to further friendly relations between Japan and the United States .
Jacob Neusner method of studying documents individually without contextualizing them with other Rabbinic documents of the same era or genre , led to a series of studies on the way Judaism creates categories of understanding and how those categories relate to one another , even as they emerge diversely in discrete rabbinic documents .
It has earned the praise of Pope Benedict XVI and the nickname `` The Pope 's Favorite Rabbi '' In Jacob Neusner book Jesus of Nazareth , Benedict refers to it as `` by far the most important book for the Jewish-Christian dialogue in the last decade '' .
Jacob Neusner work has concerned the classic texts of Judaism and how they form a cogent statement of a religious system .
In Jacob Neusner earliest work , Neusner had argued that the most credible evidence showed that the Second Commonwealth Pharisees were a sectarian group centered on `` table fellowship '' and ritual food purity practices , and less interested in wider Jewish values or social issues .
Sanders proposed that many of Jacob Neusner interpretations of Pharisaic discussions and rulings were questionable ( e.g. , Jacob Neusner concludes that 67 % of the debates between Pharisaic `` houses '' dealt with ritual food purity ; Sanders concludes that less than 1 % do -- see Sanders , p. 177 ) .
Probably the most famous and biting criticism came from Saul Lieberman : about Jacob Neusner translation of the Jerusalem Talmud , Lieberman wrote : '' ... one begins to doubt the credibility of the translator Jacob Neusner .
And indeed after a superficial perusal of the translation , the reader is stunned by Neusner 's ignorance of Rabbinic Hebrew , of Aramaic grammar , and above all of the subject matter with which Jacob Neusner deals '' .
In the course of Hohenzollern power politics Joachim Nestor and Joachim I Nestor, Elector of Brandenburg brother managed to get the latter , Albert of Mainz , first onto the sees of Magdeburg and then its suffragan of Halberstadt , both prince-bishoprics also comprising princely territories .
The acquisition in 1514 of the very influential Prince-Archbishopric-Electorate of Mainz for Albert was a coup that provided the Hohenzollerns with control over two of the seven electoral votes in imperial elections and many suffragan dioceses to levy dues .
According to canon law , Albert was too young to hold such a position and since Joachim I Nestor, Elector of Brandenburg would not give up the archiepiscopal see of Magdeburg ( in order to terminate the accumulation of archdioceses , which was also prohibited by canon law ) , the Hohenzollerns had to dispense ever greater briberies at the Holy See .
Joachim Nestor , in contrast , became known as a pugnacious adherent of Roman Catholic orthodoxy who needed the sales of indulgences and the necessary intimidation of the believers in order to recover Joachim I Nestor, Elector of Brandenburg expenditures .
Although Keats and John Keats family seem to have marked John Keats birthday on 29 October , baptism records give the date as the 31st .
From 1814 Keats had two bequests held in trust for John Keats until John Keats 21st birthday : # 800 willed by John Keats grandfather John Jennings ( about # 34,000 in today 's money ) and a portion of John Keats mother 's legacy , # 8000 ( about # 340,000 today ) , to be equally divided between her living children .
John Keats publishers , Charles and James Ollier , felt ashamed of the book .
This passage would eventually be transmuted into the concluding lines of `` Ode on a Grecian Urn '' : Beauty is truth , truth beauty ' -- that is all / you know on earth , and all ye need to know '' .
Having left John Keats training at the hospital , suffering from a succession of colds , and unhappy with living in damp rooms in London , Keats moved with John Keats brothers into rooms at 1 Well Walk in the village of Hampstead in April 1817 .
The house was close to Hunt and others from John Keats circle in Hampstead , as well as to Coleridge , respected elder of the first wave of Romantic poets , at that time living in Highgate .
In July , while on the Isle of Mull , John Keats caught a bad cold and '' was too thin and fevered to proceed on the journey '' .
John Keats composed five of John Keats six great odes at Wentworth Place in April and May and , although it is debated in which order they were written , `` Ode to Psyche '' opened the published series .
Keats 's new and progressive publishers Taylor and Hessey issued Endymion , which Keats dedicated to Thomas Chatterton , a work that John Keats termed `` a trial of John Keats Powers of Imagination '' .
The poems `` Fancy '' and `` Bards of passion and of mirth '' were inspired by the garden of Wentworth Place .
John Keats writes that John Keats `` frequented her rooms '' in the winter of 1818 -- 19 , and in John Keats letters to George says that John Keats `` warmed with her '' and `` kissed her '' .
The 2009 film Bright Star , written and directed by Jane Campion , focuses on John Keats ' relationship with Fanny Brawne .
Leigh Hunt 's Lord Byron and some of his Contemporaries ( 1828 ) gives the first biographical account , strongly emphasising John Keats supposedly humble origins , a misconception which still continues .
Landmark John Keats biographers since include Sidney Colvin , Robert Gittings , Walter Jackson Bate and Andrew Motion .
The idealised image of the heroic romantic poet who battled poverty and died young was inflated by the late arrival of an authoritative biography and the lack of an accurate likeness .
The National Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism 's database of identified terrorist organizations , which is compiled by official contractors and consultants to the United States government and is supported by the Department of Homeland Security , identifies the JDL as a `` former terrorist organization '' .
According to the Anti-Defamation League , the JDL consists only of `` thugs and hooligans '' and the group 's founder , Meir Kahane , `` preached a radical form of Jewish nationalism which reflected racism , violence and political extremism , '' attitudes that were replicated by Irv Rubin , the successor to Kahane .
The agreement also confirmed that `` the name ` Jewish Defense League , ' the acronym ` JDL , ' and the ` Fist and Star ' logo are the exclusive intellectual property of JDL '' .
( Opponents of both groups claim that these are Kahanist symbols and not the exclusive property of JDL .
Writing on Jewish Defense League official website , the JDL claims : `` The first mention of a `` Palestinian people '' dates from the aftermath of the 1967 war , when the local Arabic-speaking communities ... were retrospectively endowed with a contrived `` nationhood '' ... taken from Jewish history ... '' and that `` Clearly , since Roman times `` Palestinian '' had meant Jews until the Arab 's recent adoption of this identity in order to claim it as their land '' .
On February 25 , 1994 , Baruch Goldstein , an American-born Israeli member of the JDL , opened fire on Muslims kneeling in prayer at the revered Cave of the Patriarchs mosque in the West Bank city of Hebron , killing 29 worshippers and injuring 125 before he run out of ammunition and was himself killed .
On Jewish Defense League website , the JDL described the massacre as a `` preventative measure against yet another Arab attack on Jews '' and noted that they `` do not consider his assault to qualify under the label of terrorism '' .
In 1995 , when the Toronto residence of the Holocaust denier Ernst Zündel was the target of an arson attack , a group calling itself the `` Jewish Armed Resistance Movement '' claimed responsibility ; according to the Toronto Sun , the group had ties to the JDL and to Kahane Chai .
Jet Propulsion Laboratory ( JPL ) is a federally funded research and development center and NASA field center located in Pasadena , California .
In 1941 , Malina , Parsons , Forman , Martin Summerfield , and pilot Homer Bushey demonstrated the first JATO rockets to the Army .
In the 1940s and 1950s , using mechanical calculators , women in an all-female computations group performed trajectory calculations .
There are approximately 5,000 full-time Caltech employees , and typically a few thousand additional contractors working on any given day .
Thousands of schoolchildren from Southern California and elsewhere visit the lab every year .
The JPL Advanced Projects Design Team , also known as Team X , is an interdisciplinary team of engineers that `` utilizes concurrent engineering methodologies to complete rapid design , analysis and evaluation of mission concept designs '' .
Conversely , JPL , through the Caltech lawyers representing Jet Propulsion Laboratory , allege that Coppedge 's termination was simply due to budget cuts and his demotion from team lead was because of harassment complaints and from on-going conflicts with his co-workers .
John Howard Rutsey ( July 23 , 1952 -- May 11 , 2008 ) was a Canadian drummer , most recognized for being a co-founding member of Rush along with Alex Lifeson and Geddy Lee , and performing on John Rutsey debut album .
Lee and Lifeson have each acknowledged that during the writing and recording sessions for John Rutsey debut album , Rutsey was given the role of chief lyricist .
In interviews , Lee and Lifeson have both said that Rutsey was dissatisfied with what John Rutsey had written and had torn up the lyric sheets .
After Rutsey 's death , Lee and Lifeson released this statement : `` Our memories of the early years of Rush when John Rutsey was in John Rutsey are very fond to us .
There is also an IEEE John von Neumann Medal awarded by the IEEE annually `` for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology '' .
John Walker Lindh received training at Al-Farouq , a training camp associated with Al-Qaeda , designated a terrorist organization by the United States and other countries .
After the attacks , John Walker Lindh continued to stay and fight after John Walker Lindh learned that the US was allied with the Northern Alliance .
Michael Chertoff , then-head of the Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice , then directed the prosecutors to offer Lindh a plea bargain : Lindh could plead guilty to two charges : -- supplying services to the Taliban ( , , , and ) and carrying an explosive during the commission of a felony .
Lindh said that John Walker Lindh `` went to Afghanistan with the intention of fighting against terrorism and oppression , '' fighting for the suffering of ordinary people at the hands of the Northern Alliance .
This is because , although there is no parole under federal law , John Walker Lindh sentence could be reduced by 15 percent , or three years , for good behavior .
Freedberg derides Allori as derivative , claiming Alessandro Allori illustrates `` the ideal of Maniera by which art ( and style ) are generated out of pre-existing art '' .
It can be said of late phase mannerist painting in Florence , that the city that had early breathed life into statuary with the works of masters like Donatello and Michelangelo , was still so awed by them that it petrified the poses of figures in painting .
Among Alessandro Allori collaborators was Giovanni Maria Butteri and Alessandro Allori main pupil was Giovanni Bizzelli .
The main jet streams are located near the tropopause , the transition between the troposphere ( where temperature decreases with altitude ) and the stratosphere ( where temperature increases with altitude ) .
Jet stream paths typically have a meandering shape ; jet streams may start , stop , split into two or more parts , combine into one stream , or flow in various directions including the opposite direction of most of the jet .
The Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere each have both a polar jet and Jet stream .
Polar jet streams are typically located near the 250 hPa pressure level , or 7 to 12 above sea level , while the weaker subtropical jet streams are much higher , between 10 and 16 above sea level .
The northern hemisphere polar jet stream is most commonly found between latitudes 30 ° N and 60 ° N , while the northern subtropical jet stream is located close to latitude 30 ° N .
If two air masses of different temperatures or densities meet , the resulting pressure difference caused by the density difference ( which causes wind ) is highest within the transition zone .
The balance of forces on an atmospheric parcel in the vertical direction is primarily between the pressure gradient and the force of gravity , a balance referred to as hydrostatic .
In the horizontal , the dominant balance outside of the tropics is between the Coriolis effect and the pressure gradient , a balance referred to as geostrophic .
Given both hydrostatic and geostrophic balance , one can derive the thermal wind relation : the vertical gradient of the horizontal wind is proportional to the horizontal temperature gradient .
This results in the formation of planetary wind circulations that experience a strong Coriolis deflection and thus can be considered ` quasi-geostrophic ' .
For example , when Hurricane Flossie approached and dissipated just before reaching landfall , the NOAA cited vertical wind shear as evidenced in the photo .
During the El Niño portion of ENSO , increased precipitation falls along the Gulf coast and Southeast due to a stronger than normal , and more southerly , polar jet stream .
Across North America during La Niña , increased precipitation is diverted into the Pacific Northwest due to a more northerly storm track and jet stream .
John Ashcroft ( born May 9 , 1942 ) is an American attorney and politician who served as the 79th U.S. Attorney General ( 2001 -- 05 ) , in the George W. Bush Administration during the war on terror .
Because of Missouri state election laws and the short time to election , Carnahan 's name remained on the ballot .
But the semi-conscious Ashcroft refused to sign ; Acting Attorney General James Comey and Jack Goldsmith , head of the Office of Legal Counsel for DOJ , were there to back John Ashcroft up .
After the proposed merger of Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. and XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. , Ashcroft offered the firm John Ashcroft consulting services , according to a spokesman for XM .
With fellow US senators Trent Lott , Larry Craig , and James Jeffords , John Ashcroft formed a barbershop quartet called The Singing Senators .
The differing interpretations depend on whether the Hebrew word ha-gadol ( `` the elder '' ) is taken as grammatically referring to Japheth , or Shem .
`` Japhet , the son of Noah , had seven sons : they inhabited so , that , beginning at the mountains Taurus and Amanus , they proceeded along Asia , as far as the river Tanais ( Don ) , and along Europe to Cadiz ; and settling themselves on the lands which they light upon , which none had inhabited before , they called the nations by their own names '' .
Georgian nationalist histories associate Japheth sons with certain ancient tribes , called Tubals ( Tabals , Tibarenoi in Greek ) and Meshechs ( Meshekhs/Mosokhs , Moschoi in Greek ) , who they claim represent non-Indo-European and non-Semitic , possibly `` Proto-Iberian '' tribes of Asia Minor of the 3rd-1st millennia BC .
The term `` Japhetic '' was also applied by William Jones and other early linguists to what became known as the Indo-European language group .
Jay Scott Greenspan ( born September 23 , 1959 ) , better known by Jason Alexander professional name of Jason Alexander , is an American actor , director , producer , writer , singer , and comedian .
This is referred to in an episode of Malcolm in the Middle where Jason Alexander appears as a neurotic and critical loner called Leonard .
Malcolm , afraid of ending up like Lenard , tries to get Jason Alexander to change Jason Alexander ways and get a full-time job .
John Wycliffe was an English Scholastic philosopher , theologian , lay preacher , translator , reformer and university teacher at Oxford in England , who was known as an early dissident in the Roman Catholic Church during the 14th century .
John Wycliffe followers were known as Lollards , a somewhat rebellious movement , which preached anticlerical and biblically-centred reforms .
There in 1374 negotiations were carried on between France and England , while at the same time commissioners from England dealt with papal delegates respecting the removal of ecclesiastical annoyances .
John Wycliffe predecessor in a like case was John Owtred , a monk who formulated the statement that Saint Peter had united in John Wycliffe hands spiritual and temporal power -- the opposite of what Wycliffe taught .
John Wycliffe was no longer satisfied with John Wycliffe chair as the means of propagating John Wycliffe ideas , and soon after John Wycliffe return from Bruges John Wycliffe began to express them in tracts and longer works -- John Wycliffe great work , the Summa Theologica , was written in support of them .
While the latter attacked John Wycliffe and sought ecclesiastical censure , John Wycliffe recommended John Wycliffe to the former by John Wycliffe criticism of the worldly possessions of the clergy .
The result of the same doctrines in Bohemia -- that land but which was richest in ecclesiastical foundations -- was that in a short time the entire church estate was taken over and a revolution brought about in the relations of temporal holdings .
It was under these conditions that Pope Gregory XI , who in January , 1377 , had gone from Avignon to Rome , sent on 22 May five copies of John Wycliffe bull against Wycliffe , dispatching one to the Archbishop of Canterbury , and the others to the Bishop of London , King Edward III , the Chancellor , and the university ; among the enclosures were 18 theses of John Wycliffe , which were denounced as erroneous and dangerous to Church and State .
The masses , some of the nobility , and John Wycliffe former protector , John of Gaunt , rallied to John Wycliffe .
To refute John Wycliffe opponents , John Wycliffe wrote the book in which John Wycliffe endeavored to show that Holy Scripture contains all truth and , being from God , is the only authority .
The royal power , John Wycliffe taught , is consecrated through the testimony of Holy Scripture and the Fathers .
This book , like those that preceded and followed , was concerned with the reform of the Church , in which the temporal arm was to have an influential part .
The first step , which carried John Wycliffe to the outbreak of the schism , involves moderate recognition of the papal primacy ; the second , which carried John Wycliffe to 1381 , is marked by an estrangement from the papacy ; and the third shows him in sharp contest .
Wycliffe 's influence was never greater than at the moment when pope and antipope sent their ambassadors to England to gain recognition for themselves .
On the other hand John Wycliffe states that it is not necessary to go either to Rome or to Avignon in order to seek a decision from the pope , since the triune God is everywhere .
To distinguish between what the pope should be , if one is necessary , and the pope as John Wycliffe appeared in Wycliffe 's day was the purpose of John Wycliffe book on the power of the pope .
This battle against what John Wycliffe saw as an imperialised papacy and its supporters , the `` sects , '' as John Wycliffe called the monastic orders , takes up a large space not only in John Wycliffe later works as the Trialogus , Dialogus , Opus evangelicum , and in John Wycliffe sermons , but also in a series of sharp tracts and polemical productions in Latin and English ( of which those issued in John Wycliffe later years have been collected as `` Polemical Writings '' ) .
These teachings had more important results upon the orders and their possessions in Bohemia , where the instructions of the `` Evangelical master '' were followed to the letter in such a way that the noble foundations and practically the whole of the property of the Church were sacrificed .
But this example of Netter is not well chosen , since the tone of Wycliffe toward Kynyngham is that of a junior toward an elder whom one respects , and John Wycliffe handled other opponents in similar fashion .
But when John Wycliffe turned John Wycliffe roughest side upon John Wycliffe opponents , as for example in John Wycliffe sermons , polemical writings and tracts , John Wycliffe met the attacks with an unfriendly tone .
So that dependence upon earlier schismatic parties in the Church , which John Wycliffe never mentions in John Wycliffe writings ( as though John Wycliffe had never derived anything from them ) , is counterindicated , and attention is directed to the true sources in Scripture , to which John Wycliffe added the collections of canons of the Church .
The Bible alone was authoritative and , according to John Wycliffe own conviction and that of John Wycliffe disciples , was fully sufficient for the government of this world ( De sufficientia legis Christi ) .
Of all the reformers who preceded Martin Luther , John Wycliffe put most emphasis on Scripture : `` Even though there were a hundred popes and though every mendicant monk were a cardinal , they would be entitled to confidence only insofar as they accorded with the Bible '' .
In Christ stilling the Storm John Wycliffe wrote : `` If a man believe in Christ , and make a point of John Wycliffe belief , then the promise that God hath made to come into the land of light shall be given by virtue of Christ , to all men that make this the chief matter '' .
Henry Knighton says that in philosophy John Wycliffe was second to none , and in scholastic discipline incomparable .
Space consists of a number of points of space determined from eternity , and time of exactly such a number of moments , and the number of these is known only to the divine spirit .
From the identity of space and the physical world , and the circular motion of the heavens , John Wycliffe deduces the spherical form of the universe .
John Wycliffe demanded strict dialectical training as the means of distinguishing the true from the false , and asserted that logic ( or the syllogism ) furthered the knowledge of catholic verities ; ignorance of logic was the reason why men misunderstood Scripture , since men overlooked the connection -- the distinction between idea and appearance .
John Kingsley ( `` Joe Orton '' ) Orton ( 1 January 1933 -- 9 August 1967 ) was an English playwright and author .
The book covers that Joe Orton and Halliwell vandalised have since become a valued part of the Islington Local History Centre collection .
Joe Orton offered the play to Codron in October 1964 and it underwent sweeping rewrites before it was judged fit for the West End ( for example , the character of `` Inspector Truscott '' had a mere eight lines in the initial first act .
Discouraged , Joe Orton and Halliwell went on an 80-day holiday in Tangier , Morocco .
The Erpingham Camp , Orton 's take on The Bacchae , written through mid-1965 and offered to Rediffusion in October of that year , was broadcast on 27 June 1966 as the ` pride ' segment in their series Seven Deadly Sins .
In March 1967 Joe Orton and Halliwell had intended another extended holiday in Libya , but they returned home after one day because the only hotel accommodation they could find was a boat that had been converted into a hotel/nightclub .
Orton 's legacy stands to live on in Joe Orton hometown , Leicester ; the development of the `` cultural quarter '' of the city , a former industrial area , continues apace and the new Theatre , Curve , the central development in the area , has a new pedestrian concourse outside the theatre 's main entrance named `` Orton Square '' .
Jaynes ' definition of consciousness is synonymous with what philosophers call `` meta-consciousness '' or `` meta-awareness '' i.e. awareness of awareness , thoughts about thinking , desires about desires , beliefs about beliefs .
Julian Jaynes wrote , `` For bicameral humans , volition came as a voice that was in the nature of a neurological command , in which the command and the action were not separated , in which to hear was to obey '' .
At the April 2008 `` Toward a Science of Consciousness '' Conference held in Tucson , Arizona , Marcel Kuijsten ( Executive Director and Founder of the Julian Jaynes Society ) and Brian J. McVeigh ( University of Arizona ) hosted a workshop devoted to Jaynesian psychology .
Together with Roland Barthes , Todorov , Goldmann , Gérard Genette , Lévi-Strauss , Lacan , Greimas , and Althusser , Julia Kristeva stands as one of the foremost structuralists , in that time when structuralism took a major place in humanities .
For example , Julia Kristeva view of the subject , and its construction , shares similarities with Sigmund Freud and Jacques Lacan .
According to Schippers ( 2011 ) , where Kristeva departs from Lacan is in Julia Kristeva belief that even after entering the symbolic , the subject continues to oscillate between the semiotic and the symbolic .
This continued identification with the mother may result in what Julia Kristeva refers to in Black Sun ( 1992 ) as melancholia ( depression ) , given that female children simultaneously reject and identify with the mother figure .
It has also been suggested ( e.g. , Creed , 1993 ) that the degradation of women and women 's bodies in popular culture ( and particularly , for example , in slasher films ) emerges because of the threat to identity that the mother 's body poses : it is a reminder of time spent in the undifferentiated state of the semiotic , where one has no concept of self or identity .
Julia Kristeva idea of the chora has been interpreted in several ways : as a reference to the uterus , as a metaphor for the relationship between the mother and child , and as the temporal period preceding the Mirror Stage .
In Julia Kristeva essay `` Motherhood According to Giovanni '' from Desire in Language ( 1980 ) , Kristeva refers to the chora as a `` non-expressive totality formed by drives and their stases in a motility that is full of movement as it is regulated '' .
Julia Kristeva fictional oeuvre , which includes The Old Man and the Wolves , Murder in Byzantium , and Possessions , while often allegorical , also approaches the autobiographical in some passages , especially with one of the protagonists of Possessions , Stephanie Delacour -- a French journalist -- who can be seen as Kristeva 's alter ego .
For her `` innovative explorations of questions on the intersection of language , culture and literature '' , Julia Kristeva was awarded the Holberg International Memorial Prize in 2004 .
They conclude `` the main problem summarized by these texts is that Julia Kristeva makes no effort to justify the reference of these mathematical concepts to the fields Julia Kristeva is purporting to study - linguistics , literary criticism , political philosophy , psychoanalysis - and this in our opinion , is for the very good reason that there is none .
The Almoravids ( Imṛabḍen , Al-Murābiṭūn ) were a Berber dynasty of Morocco , who formed an empire in the 11th century that stretched over the western Maghreb and Al-Andalus .
The eastern Sanhaja included the Kutama Berbers , who had been the base of the Fatimid rise in the early 10th century , and the Zirid dynasty , who ruled Ifriqiya as vassals of the Fatimids after the latter moved to Egypt in 972 .
The western Sanhaja were divided into several tribes - the Gazzula and the Lamta in the Draa valley and the foothills of the Anti-Atlas range , further south , encamped in the western Sahara desert , were the Massufa , the Lamtuna and the Banu Warith , and most southerly of all , the Gudala ( or Judala ) , in littoral Mauritania down to the borderlands of the Senegal river .
Around 1040 , Yahya ibn Ibrahim , a chieftain of the Gudala ( and brother-in-law of the late Tarsina ) , went on pilgrimage to Mecca .
According to Arab tradition , the ensuing war pushed Ghana over the edge , ending the kingdom 's position as a commercial and military power by 1100 , as Almoravid dynasty collapsed into tribal groups and chieftaincies , some of which later assimilated into the Almoravids while others founded the Mali Empire .
The Almoravid power was at Almoravid dynasty height at Yusuf 's death : the Moorish empire then included all of North-West Africa as far as Algiers , and all of Iberia south of the Tagus as far eastward as the mouth of the Ebro , including the Balearic Islands .
In music , just intonation ( sometimes abbreviated as JI ) or pure intonation is any musical tuning in which the frequencies of notes are related by ratios of small whole numbers .
For example , two tones , one at 300 Hertz ( cycles per second ) , and the other at 200 hertz are both multiples of 100 Hz and as such members of the harmonic series built on 100 Hz .
The square waveform makes the difference between equal and just temperaments more obvious .
Namely , C-E is flattened to a justly intonated ratio of and at the same time E-G is sharpened to the just ratio of The drawback is that the fifths A-E and E-B , by flattening E , become almost as dissonant as the Pythagorean wolf fifth .
Starting from C , Just intonation are obtained by moving six steps to the left and six to the right .
This twelve tone scale is fairly close to equal temperament , but Just intonation does not offer much advantage for tonal harmony because only the perfect intervals ( fourth , fifth , and octave ) are simple enough to sound pure .
The primary reason for Just intonation use is that it is extremely easy to tune , as Just intonation building block , the perfect fifth , is the simplest and consequently the most consonant interval after the octave and unison .
The table above uses only low powers of 3 and 5 to build the base ratios .
In Indian music , the just diatonic scale described above is used , though there are different possibilities , for instance for the 6th pitch ( Dha ) , and further modifications may be made to all pitches excepting Sa and Pa.
Johnston ` s method is based on a diatonic C Major scale tuned in JI , in which the interval between D ( 9/8 above C ) and A ( 5/3 above C ) is one syntonic comma less than a Pythagorean perfect fifth 3:2 .
Following the method of notation suggested by Helmholtz in his classic `` On the Sensations of Tone as a Physiological Basis for the Theory of Music '' , incorporating Ellis ' invention of cents , and following Johnston 's step into `` Extended JI '' , Sabat and Schweinitz consider each prime dimension of harmonic space to be represented by a unique symbol .
Thus , a series of perfect fifths beginning with F proceeds C G D A E B F and so on .
The convention used is that the cents written refer to the tempered pitch implied by the flat , natural , or sharp sign and the note name .
A complete legend and fonts for the notation ( see samples ) are open source and available from Plainsound Music Edition .
Josephus ( 37 -- 100 ) , also called Joseph ben Matityahu ( Biblical Hebrew : יוסף בן מתתיהו , Josephus ) , was a scholar who witnessed the sack of Jerusalem , a first century Romano-Jewish historian and hagiographer who was born in Jerusalem -- then part of Roman Judea -- to a father of priestly descent and a mother who claimed royal ancestry .
Jonathon may have been Alexander Jannaeus , the High Priest and Hasmonean ruler who governed Judea from 103 BC -- 76 BC .
In 71 , Josephus went to Rome in the entourage of Titus , becoming a Roman citizen and client of the ruling Flavian dynasty ( hence Josephus is often referred to as Flavius Josephus -- see below ) .
Josephus was described by Harris in 1985 as a law-observant Jew who believed in the compatibility of Judaism and Graeco-Roman thought , commonly referred to as Hellenistic Judaism .
Josephus critics were never satisfied as to why Josephus failed to commit suicide in Galilee and , after Josephus capture , accepted the patronage of Romans .
Josephan scholarship in the 19th and early 20th century became focused on Josephus ' relationship to the sect of the Pharisees .
In the Life , Niese follows mainly manuscript P , but refers also to AMW and R. Henry St. John Thackeray for the Loeb Classical Library has a Greek text also mainly dependent on P. André Pelletier edited a new Greek text for Josephus translation of Life .
Rather , Josephus blames the Jewish War on what Josephus calls `` unrepresentative and over-zealous fanatics '' among the Jews , who led the masses away from their traditional aristocratic leaders ( like Josephus ) , with disastrous results .
The next work by Josephus is Josephus twenty-one volume Antiquities of the Jews , completed during the last year of the reign of the Emperor Flavius Domitian ( between 1.9.93 and 14.3.94
Josephus 's Against Apion is a two-volume defence of Judaism as classical religion and philosophy , stressing its antiquity , as opposed to what Josephus claimed was the relatively more recent tradition of the Greeks .
In the past Aloe has also been assigned to the families Liliaceae and Aloeaceae , as well as the family Asphodelaceae , before this was merged into the Xanthorrhoeaceae .
Aloe vera is used both internally and externally on humans , and is claimed to have some medicinal effects , which have been supported by scientific and medical research .
Between 1945 and 1947 John Pople worked at the Bristol Aeroplane Company .
Jerry Lamon Falwell , Sr. ( August 11 , 1933 -- May 15 , 2007 ) was an American evangelical fundamentalist Southern Baptist pastor , televangelist , and a conservative political commentator .
Jerry Falwell founded Lynchburg Christian Academy ( now Liberty Christian Academy ) in 1967 , Liberty University in 1971 , and cofounded the Moral Majority in 1979 .
Falwell strongly advocated beliefs and practices Jerry Falwell believed were taught by the Bible .
In speaking of the Brown vs. `` If Chief Justice Warren and Jerry Falwell associates had known God 's word and had desired to do the Lord 's will , Jerry Falwell am quite confident that the 1954 decision would never had been made .
When Carlson countered that conservatives `` are always arguing against ` special rights ' for gays , '' Jerry Falwell said that equal access to housing , civil marriage , and employment are basic rights , not special rights .
`` Civil rights for all Americans , black , white , red , yellow , the rich , poor , young , old , gay , straight , et cetera , is not a liberal or conservative value .
Falwell 's staunch pro-Israel stand , sometimes referred to as `` Christian Zionism '' , drew the strong support of the Anti-Defamation League and its leader Abraham Foxman .
One unusual link between Falwell and Conservative rabbi Arnold Resnicoff , a Navy chaplain , was created when President Ronald Reagan surprised the participants at Falwell 's `` Baptist Fundamentalism ' 84 '' convention in Washington , D.C. , by choosing to read Resnicoff 's on-site report of the 1983 Beirut barracks bombing as Jerry Falwell keynote address .
Resnicoff reported that Jerry Falwell supported the idea of using the Biblical verse that teaches that `` God hears the words of our mouths and the meditations of our heart '' as a basis for allowing Christian chaplains to offer `` inclusive '' prayers , because they could offer denominational words , such as `` In Jesus 's name , '' silently , as a `` meditation of the heart '' .
Amongst many remarks over the years Jerry Falwell is probably most known for statements attributed to Jerry Falwell about a Teletubby being a homosexual role model for homosexual recruitment and stating that LGBT organizations angered God , thereby in part causing God to let the September 11 attacks happen .
At the forum , Falwell told homosexuals in attendance `` Jerry Falwell do n't agree with your lifestyle , Jerry Falwell will never agree with your lifestyle , but Jerry Falwell love you '' and added `` anything that leaves the impression that we hate the sinner , we want to change that '' Jerry Falwell later commented to New York Times columnist Frank Rich that `` admittedly , evangelicals have not exhibited an ability to build a bond of friendship to the gay and lesbian community .
In response , Steve Rice , spokesperson for Itsy Bitsy Entertainment , which licenses the Teletubbies in the US , said , `` Jerry Falwell really find it absurd and kind of offensive '' .
Apart from those characteristics Tinky Winky also carries a magic bag which the NLJ and Salon articles said was a purse .
Egyptian Christian intellectuals , in response , signed a statement in which they condemned and rejected what Jerry Falwell had said about Muhammad being a terrorist .
In 1972 , the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) launched an investigation of bonds issued by Falwell 's organizations .
Previous to this , `` Falwell 's attorneys have fought over domain names in the past '' with a different man who despite eventually turned over and jerryfallwell.com after Jerry Falwell threatened to sue for trademark infringement .
In an interview Falwell claimed , `` Jerry Falwell believe in the premillennial , pre-tribulational coming of Christ for all of Jerry Falwell church , and to summarize that , your first poll , do you believe Jesus ' coming the second time will be in the future , Jerry Falwell would vote yes with the 59 percent and with Billy Graham and most evangelicals '' .
On May 15 , 2007 , Falwell was found without pulse and unconscious in Jerry Falwell office about 10:45 am after missing a morning appointment and was taken to Lynchburg General Hospital .
`` Jerry Falwell had breakfast with Jerry Falwell , and Jerry Falwell was fine at breakfast ... Jerry Falwell went to Jerry Falwell office , Jerry Falwell went to mine and they found Jerry Falwell unresponsive '' said Ron Godwin , the executive vice president of Falwell 's Liberty University .
Falwell 's family , including Jerry Falwell wife Macel and sons Jerry Falwell , Jr. and Jonathan Falwell , were at the hospital at the time of the pronouncement .
In 1992 , Jay Leno replaced Carson as host amid controversy with David Letterman , who had been hosting Late Night with David Letterman since 1982 ( aired after The Tonight Show ) , and who many had expected to be Carson 's successor .
All NBC late night programming would be preempted by the 2010 Winter Olympics between February 15 and February 26 .
There 's really only one person who could have done this into Jay Leno 60s , and that was Johnny Carson ; Jay Leno think it 's fair to say Jay Leno 'm no Johnny Carson '' .
Actor and comedian Patton Oswalt was among the first celebrities to openly voice disappointment with Leno , saying , `` Comedians who do n't like Jay Leno now , and Jay Leno 'm one of them , we 're not like , ` Jay Leno sucks ; ' it 's that we 're so hurt and disappointed that one of the best comedians of our generation ... willfully has shut the switch off '' .
Since 1985 Jay Leno has been the grand marshal for the Love Ride , a motorcycle charity event which since its founding in 1984 has raised nearly $ 14 million dollars for charities benefiting muscular dystrophy research , Autism Speaks , and in 2001 , the September 11 attacks recovery .
Jay Leno is the grand marshal for the Love Ride , a motorcycle charity event which since its founding in 1984 has raised nearly $ 14 million dollars for charities benefiting muscular dystrophy research , Autism Speaks , and in 2001 , the September 11 attacks recovery .
Jeroboam II was victorious over the Syrians ( 2 Kings 13:4 ; 14:26 , 27 ) , conquered Damascus ( 14:28 ) , and extended Israel to its former limits , from `` the entering of Hamath to the sea of the plain '' ( 14:25 ; Amos 6:14 ) .
Multiple biblical references exist to this earthquake in the Book of Amos ( 3:14 , 6:11 , 8:8 , 9:1 ) , and also in Zechariah 14:5 .
Jeroboam II is the son and successor of Jehoash , ( alternatively spelled Joash ) , and the fourteenth king of the ancient Kingdom of Israel , over which he ruled for forty-one years .
1412 -- 30 May 1431 ) , nicknamed `` The Maid of Orléans '' , is a folk heroine of France and a Roman Catholic saint .
Joan of Arc is -- along with St. Denis , St. Martin of Tours , St. Louis IX , and St. Theresa of Lisieux -- one of the patron saints of France .
Nearly all the fighting had taken place in France , and the English army 's use of chevauchée tactics ( similar to scorched earth strategies ) had devastated the economy .
The king 's brother Duke Louis of Orléans , Duke of Orléans , and the king 's cousin John the Fearless , Duke of Burgundy , quarreled over the regency of France and the guardianship of the royal children .
Joan of Arc was born the daughter of Jacques d'Arc and Isabelle Romée in Domrémy , a village which was then in the French part of the duchy of Bar , or Barrois mouvant , situated West of the Meuse River , while the rest of the duchy ( East of the Meuse ) was a part of the Holy Roman Empire .
In April 1429 , the commission of inquiry `` declared Joan of Arc to be of irreproachable life , a good Christian , possessed of the virtues of humility , honesty and simplicity '' .
` To doubt or abandon Joan of Arc without suspicion of evil would be to repudiate the Holy Spirit and to become unworthy of God 's aid ' , they declared .
During the five months of siege before Joan of Arc arrival , the defenders of Orléans attempted only one aggressive move and that ended in disaster .
This was a bold proposal because Reims was roughly twice as far away as Paris and deep within enemy territory .
The army recovered Jargeau on 12 June , Meung-sur-Loire on 15 June , and Beaugency on 17 June .
Although Joan of Arc and the duke of Alençon urged a prompt march on Paris , the royal court preferred a negotiated truce with the duke of Burgundy .
Before England could rebuild its military leadership and force of longbowmen , lost in 1429 , the country lost its alliance with Burgundy at the Treaty of Arras in 1435 .
Kelly DeVries argues that Joan of Arc aggressive use of artillery and frontal assaults influenced French tactics for the rest of the war .
This unusual wealth of primary source material is one reason DeVries declares , `` No person of the Middle Ages , male or female , has been the subject of more study '' .
De Charmette 's Orléanide , today largely forgotten , was another attempt to magnify the national ethos as writers like Virgil ( the Aeneid ) , or Camoens ( Os Lusíadas ) had done for Rome and Portugal .
They consisted of a charred human rib , carbonized wood , a piece of linen and a cat femur -- explained as the practice of throwing black cats onto the pyre of witches .
In 1906 Johannes Nicolaus Brønsted published the first of Johannes Nicolaus Brønsted many papers on electron affinity , and , simultaneously with the English chemist Thomas Martin Lowry Johannes Nicolaus Brønsted introduced the protonic theory of acid-base reactions in 1923 .
Working with Lowry , Johannes Nicolaus Brønsted also developed the often used theory of proton donation , theorizing that a hydrogen atom ( which is always found in an acid ) ionizes into hydronium upon dissolving in water , thereby losing its electron and becoming a proton donor , and that hydroxide ( a water molecule stripped of one of its two hydrogen atoms ) is a proton receiver .
The name is taken from the two-faced Roman god of beginnings and endings , Janus , because the JAKs possess two near-identical phosphate-transferring domains .
JAK1 and JAK2 are involved in type II interferon ( interferon-gamma ) signalling , whereas JAK1 and TYK2 are involved in type I interferon signalling .
The activated STATs dissociate from the receptor and form dimers before translocating to the cell nucleus , where they regulate transcription of selected genes .
The amino terminal ( NH2 ) end ( JH4-JH7 ) of Jaks is called a FERM domain ( short for band 4.1 ezrin , radixin and moesin ) ; this domain is also found in the focal adhesion kinase ( FAK ) family and is involved in association of JAKs with cytokine receptors and/or other kinases .
Jacob Grimm ( also Karl ; 4 January 1785 -- 20 September 1863 ) was a German philologist , jurist and mythologist .
Jacob Grimm is best known as the discoverer of Grimm 's Law ( linguistics ) , the author ( with Jacob Grimm brother ) of the monumental Deutsches Wörterbuch , the author of Deutsche Mythologie and , more popularly , as one of the Brothers Grimm , as the editor of Grimm 's Fairy Tales .
Jacob Grimm was born in Hanau , in Hesse-Kassel ( or Hesse-Cassel ) .
Jacob Grimm father , who was a lawyer , died while Jacob Grimm was a child , and Jacob Grimm mother was left with very small means ; but her sister , who was lady of the chamber to the Landgravine of Hesse , helped to support and educate her numerous family .
Savigny 's lectures also awakened in Jacob Grimm a love for historical and antiquarian investigation , which forms the structure of all Jacob Grimm work .
Towards the close of the year Jacob Grimm returned to Kassel , where Jacob Grimm mother and Wilhelm had settled , the latter having finished Jacob Grimm studies .
Jacob Grimm also described Jacob Grimm impressions of Italian and Scandinavian travel , interspersing Jacob Grimm more general observations with linguistic details , as is the case in all Jacob Grimm works .
Jacob Grimm was as far removed from the narrowness of the specialist who has no ideas or sympathies beyond just one author or corner of science as Jacob Grimm was from the shallow dabbler who feverishly attempts to master the details of a half-dozen unrelated pursuits .
Jacob Grimm was equally fortunate in the harmony that existed between Jacob Grimm intellectual and moral natures .
The Grammar was continued in three volumes , treating principally derivation , composition and syntax , the last of which was unfinished .
It concerns the correspondence of consonants in the older Indo-European , and Low Saxon and High German languages , and was first fully stated by Grimm in the second edition of the first part of Jacob Grimm grammar .
It is true that a certain bitterness of feeling afterwards sprang up between Grimm and Rask , but this may have well been the fault of the latter , who , impatient of contradiction and irritable in controversy , refused to consider the value of Grimm 's views when they involved modification of Jacob Grimm own .
However , Jacob had little taste for text editing , and , as Jacob Grimm Jacob Grimm confessed , working on a critical text gave Jacob Grimm little pleasure .
At the same time they collected all the folktales they could find , partly from the mouths of the people , partly from manuscripts and books , and published in 1812 -- 1815 the first edition of those Kinder - und Hausmärchen ( Children 's and Household Tales ) , which has carried the name of the brothers Grimm into every household of the western world .
Jacob Grimm work with fairy tales and Jacob Grimm philological work dealt with German origins .
The single `` Space Cowboy '' gained notice on the charts and in club rotation .
The success of `` Virtual Insanity '' was due in part to its Jonathan Glazer-directed video , which featured Kay 's dance moves and some physics-defying images .
At the 1997 MTV Video Music Awards , the creative music video for `` Virtual Insanity '' won four awards ; Best Video , Best Special Effects , Best Cinematography , and Breakthrough Video , and Jamiroquai performed the song at the ceremony .
On 1 September 2010 , Jay Kay featured on The Chris Moyles Show ( This edition hosted by Vernon Kay ) and the Single White Knuckle Ride was played for the first time , live on air .
Despite both singles , Blue Skies and White Knuckle Ride reaching into Top 100 charts worldwide , the album sold a mere 34,378 copies on its debut , around half the amount sold of the previous album Dynamite .
Allegedly it was originally sketched by Jamiroquai primary songwriter and front-man Jason Kay , as Buffalo Man is seemingly a self portrait silhouette of Kay wearing a buffalo hat .
`` Half the Man '' , The Return of the Space Cowboy For the single `` Half The Man '' , Buffalo Man is on the cover as a keyring with a heart in the clasp representing the fact it is a love song and the keyring itself is split down the middle in two halves to represent the song title .
Releases of `` Cosmic Girl '' and the promo CD of `` Everyday '' had replaced the dots above the ` i ' letters with stars .
Johann August Sutter ( February 15 , 1803 -- June 18 , 1880 ) was a Swiss pioneer of California known for John Sutter association with the California Gold Rush by the discovery of gold by James W. Marshall and the mill making team at Sutter 's Mill , and for establishing Sutter 's Fort in the area that would eventually become Sacramento , the state 's capital .
Because of family and mounting debts , Johann faced charges that would have John Sutter placed in jail .
Sutter 's Landing , Sutterville Road , Sutter Middle School , Sutter 's Mill School , and Sutterville Elementary School in Sacramento are all named after John Sutter .
John Adams (composer) father taught John Adams (composer) how to play the clarinet , and John Adams (composer) was a clarinetist in community ensembles .
John Adams (composer) served as musical producer for a number of series for the Public Broadcasting System including the award-winning series , The Adams Chronicles in 1976 and 1977 .
Adams worked in the electronic music studio at the San Francisco Conservatory of Music , having built John Adams (composer) own analogue synthesizer , and as conductor of the New Music Ensemble , John Adams (composer) had a small but dedicated pool of young and talented musicians occasionally at John Adams (composer) disposal .
The `` period '' -- that is , the number of beats per repeated pattern -- of each instrument is different , and this results in a constantly shifting texture of melody and rhythmic emphasis .
Harmonielehre ( 1984 -- 85 ) : Inspired by a dream of an oil tanker taking flight out of San Francisco Bay and also by Arnold Schoenberg 's book , Harmonielehre ( Theory of Harmony ) .
In October 2008 , Adams told BBC Radio 3 that John Adams (composer) had been blacklisted by the U.S. Homeland Security department and immigration services .
The Death of Klinghoffer ( 1991 ) : The opera 's story begins with the 1985 hijacking of the Italian cruise ship Achille Lauro by Palestinian terrorists and details the murder of a passenger named Leon Klinghoffer , a retired , physically disabled American Jew .
John Adams (composer) Was Looking at the Ceiling and Then John Adams (composer) Saw the Sky ( 1995 ) : A stage piece with libretto by June Jordan and staging by Peter Sellars .
John Adams (composer) was the first composer to have earned the latter award three times , having previously won the award for El Dorado ( 1998 ) and Nixon in China ( 1989 ) .
John Adams (composer) Father Knew Charles Ives ( 2003 ) : Adams writes , `` John Adams (composer) Father Knew Charles Ives is musical autobiography , an homage and encomium to a composer whose influence on John Adams (composer) has been huge '' .
Comparing Shaker Loops to minimalist composer Terry Riley 's piece In C , Adams says , rather than set up small engines of motivic materials and let them run free in a kind of random play of counterpoint , John Adams (composer) used the fabric of continually repeating cells to forge large architectonic shapes , creating a web of activity that , even within the course of a single movement , was more detailed , more varied , and knew both light and dark , serenity and turbulence .
By the time John Adams (composer) graduated , John Adams (composer) was disillusioned with the restrained feeling and inaccessibility of serialism .
In The Dharma at Big Sur , Adam 's draws from literary texts such as Jack Kerouac , Gary Snyder and Henry Miller to illustrate the California landscape .
Adams professes John Adams (composer) love of other genres other than classical music ; John Adams (composer) parents were jazz musicians , and John Adams (composer) has also listened to rock music , albeit only passively .
Philip Glass ) , used a steady pulse that defines and controls the music .
Oddly enough , John Adams (composer) music of the 1990s slowly starts to incorporate it more and more to the point where one critic believes this slowly increasing incorporation of minimalism `` represents a coming to terms with minimalism according to a decidedly tonal slant : pulse and repetition have been transmuted , by a kind of reverse-chronological alchemy , into devices of familiar from earlier eras , such as moto perpetuo and ostinato '' .
It is this pulsing A , played as an eighth note as opposed to a sixteenth note , that pokes fun at the minimalist , yet Adams still uses the pulse ( i.e. alternating eighth notes between the right and left hand , creating a sixteenth note feeling ) as an engine for the movement .
Shaker Loops has been described as `` hauntingly ethereal , '' while 1999 's `` Naïve and Sentimental Music '' has been called `` an exploration of a marvelously extended spinning melody '' .
Donal Henahan , special to the New York Times , called the Houston Grand Opera world premiere of the work `` worth a few giggles but hardly a strong candidate for the standard repertory '' and `` visually striking but coy and insubstantial '' .
James Wierzbicki for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch described Adams 's score as the weak point in an otherwise well-staged performance , noting the music as `` inappropriately placid , '' `` cliché-ridden in the abstract '' and `` trafficked heavily in Adams 's worn-out Minimalist clichés '' .
Only a few days later , Allan Kozinn wrote an investigative report citing that Leon Klinghoffer 's daughters , Lisa and Ilsa , had `` expressed their disapproval '' of the opera in a statement saying `` We are outraged at the exploitation of our parents and the coldblooded murder of our father as the centerpiece of a production that appears to us to be anti-Semitic '' .
Tommasini called John Adams (composer) a `` skilled and dynamic conductor , '' and noted that the music `` was gravely beautiful yet restless '' .
John Adams (composer) is a reserve clarinetist for both the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the Opera Company of Boston .
The coins were produced using an anvil die technique and stamped with the Lion 's head , the symbol of the Mermnadae .
Alyattes II tomb still exists on the plateau between Lake Gygaea and the river Hermus to the north of Sardis -- a large mound of earth with a substructure of huge stones .
Also in 2001 , Jon Voight joined Leelee Sobieski , Hank Azaria and David Schwimmer in the made-for-television movie Uprising , which was based on the uprising in the Warsaw ghetto .
Voight was almost unrecognizable under Jon Voight make-up and toupee , as Jon Voight impersonated the sports broadcaster Howard Cosell .
In 2009 , Jon Voight played Jonas Hodges , the villain , in the seventh season of the hit Fox drama 24 , a role that many argue is based on real life figures Alfried Krupp , Johann Rall and Erik Prince .
Daniel , though claiming to be a contemporary , admits to no knowledge of John 's origins -- any speculation on John 's birth is the result of much later speculation , and is confined to references in the Menologion .
That view was challenged by J.C. Guy and others , and consensus ( such as there is ) has shifted to a 7th Century provenance .
Originally written simply for the monks of a neighboring monastery , John Climacus swiftly became one of the most widely read and much-beloved books of Byzantine spirituality .
John Climacus is one of the most widely read and much-beloved books of Byzantine spirituality .
Jerome Callet ( born April 24 , 1930 ) is a musician , teacher and designer of brass instruments .
Callet , spends the bulk of Jerome Callet time teaching embouchure for all brass instruments having recently retired from Jerome Callet long-time practice of designing Jerome Callet own line of brass mouthpieces , trumpets , and trombones .
Java coffee coffee is prized as one component in the traditional `` Mocha Java '' blend , which pairs coffee from Yemen and Java coffee .
Java (board game) is a German-style board game designed by Wolfgang Kramer and Michael Kiesling and published in 2000 by Ravensburger in German and by Rio Grande Games in English .
Java (board game) won the Deutscher Spiele Preis 9th place in 2001 and the Games Magazine Best Advanced Strategy Game in 2002 .
Java (board game) is the second game in the Mask Trilogy , following Tikal and followed by Mexica .
Ancient Greek poet Hesiod in `` Works and Days '' ( c. 700BC ) suggests that a man should marry around the age of thirty , and that he should take a wife who is five years past puberty .
The first recorded age-of-consent law dates to 1275 , in England , as part of the rape law , a statute , Westminster 1 , made Age of consent a misdemeanor to `` ravish '' a `` maiden within age , '' whether with or without her consent .
Some countries have age of consent laws which apply not only to acts committed within the country , but also to those committed by Age of consent citizens or inhabitants while Age of consent are on foreign soil .
This applies in cases where any of the partners travels into or out of the United States , or from one state into another , for the purpose of a sexual encounter .
In jurisdictions where the marriageable age is lower than Age of consent , those laws usually override the age of consent laws in the case of a married couple where one or both partners are below Age of consent .
Films and images showing individuals under the age of 18 in some jurisdictions may be classified as child pornography , even though the legal age of consent in those jurisdictions is lower .
A number of landmark buildings in Oxford , including the Radcliffe Camera ( in Radcliffe Square ) , the Radcliffe Infirmary , and the Radcliffe Observatory were named after John Radcliffe (physician) .
The John Radcliffe (physician) Hospital and the Radcliffe Infirmary in Oxford are named after John Radcliffe (physician) , as is Oxford Radcliffe Private Healthcare which is based at the John Radcliffe (physician) Hospital .
Speakers of Quebec French from outside Montreal usually have other names to identify their speech , such as Magoua in Trois-Rivières , and Chaouin south of Trois-Rivières .
Although moé and toé are today considered substandard slang pronunciations , these were the pronunciations of Old French and French used in all provinces of Northern France -- by the royalty , aristocracy and common people .
Joual shares many features with modern Oïl languages , such as Norman , Gallo , Picard , Poitevin and Saintongeais though Joual affinities are greatest with the 17th century koiné of Paris .
Jacob offered to give Esau a bowl of stew in exchange for his birthright ( the right to be recognized as firstborn ) and Esau agreed because he despised his birthright In , Jacob uses deception , motivated by his mother Rebekah , to receive his father Isaac 's blessing that was inherently due to the firstborn , Esau , had Esau not sold it to Jacob .
Jacob having fled for his life , leaves behind the wealth of Isaac 's flocks and land and tents in Esau 's hands .
Jacob , who had deceived his father , is in turn deceived and cheated by his relative Laban concerning Jacob 's seven years of service ( lacking money for a dowry ) for the hand of Rachel , receiving Leah instead .
Jacob sends his whole family and multiple waves of gifts to Esau as Jacob and Esau approach each other in hopes of Esau sparing his life .
Joseph Lister, 1st Baron Lister , 1st Baron Lister , Bt. , OM , FRS , PC ( 5 April 1827 -- 10 February 1912 ) , known as Sir Joseph Lister, 1st Baron Lister , Bt. , between 1883 and 1897 , was a British surgeon and a pioneer of antiseptic surgery .
Although Runge had no understanding of how decomposition occurred , the chemical had been used to treat the wood used for railway ties and ships since it protected the wood from rotting .
Joseph Lister, 1st Baron Lister was president of the Royal Society between 1895 and 1900 .
Johann Homann ( 20 March 1664 -- 1 July 1724 ) was a German geographer and cartographer , who made maps of the Americas .
The nationalists in the freedom struggle of India dubbed Calcutta University , another pillar of India 's education movement , as `` Goldighir Ghulamkhana '' , or the slave house of Goldighi , with reference to the lake adjacent to Calcutta University , and the number of graduates it churned out who were used in British merchant offices as clerks .
Generous sums of money were also donated by Brojendra Kishore Roy Choudhury , Maharaja Suryya Kanto Acharya Choudhury and Rashbihari Ghosh , who was appointed the first president of Jadavpur University .
As the university celebrated Jadavpur University Golden Jubilee on December 24 , 2005 , a special emblem ( see above ) was created to commemorate the occasion , and the motto ` To Know Is To Grow ' was coined .
Some of the older buildings , especially in the engineering faculty and the Aurobindo Bhavan in particular , have a strong Bengali influence which can be seen in the design of the pillars and even the wooden doors and windows .
In addition to being a unitary university , Jadavpur University has other institutes like the Jawahari Devi Birla Institute of Commerce and Management , Jadavpur Vidyapith as well as the Institute of Business Management , Jadavpur University affiliated to it , which operate out of independent campuses .
BLUEPRINT and TREND both are the departmental magazine of Department of Architecture , Jadavpur University .
Prof. Hiralal Roy A. B. ( Harvard ) was Jadavpur University first secretary and Dr. Abinesh Ch .
James Logan Jones , Jr. ( born December 19 , 1943 ) is the former United States National Security Advisor and a retired United States Marine Corps General .
Returning to the United States , James L. Jones was advanced to the rank of major general in July 1994 and was assigned as commanding general , 2nd Marine Division , Marine Forces Atlantic , MCB Camp Lejeune .
Jones next served as director , Expeditionary Warfare Division ( N85 ) , Office of the Chief of Naval Operations , during 1996 , then as the deputy chief of staff for plans , policies , and operations , Headquarters Marine Corps , Washington , D.C. James L. Jones was advanced to lieutenant general on July 18 , 1996 .
Among other innovations during James L. Jones career as Marine Corps commandant , Jones oversaw the Marine Corps ' development of MARPAT camouflage uniforms , and the adoption of the Marine Corps Martial Arts Program ( MCMAP ) .
The pick surprised people because , as Michael Crowley reported `` The two men did n't meet until Obama 's foreign policy aide , Mark Lippert , arranged a 2005 sit-down , and , as of this October , Jones had only spoken to Obama twice '' .
Crowley speculated that Jones ' record suggests James L. Jones is `` someone who , unencumbered by strong ideological leanings , can evaluate ideas dispassionately whether they come from left or right '' , and , `` This is probably why Obama picked him '' .
Former U.S. Secretary of Defense William Cohen , who hired Jones as James L. Jones military assistant , is quoted as saying Jones has a placid demeanor and a `` methodical approach to problems -- James L. Jones 's able to view issues at both the strategic and tactical level '' .
James Lovelock , CH , CBE , FRS , Ph.D ( born 26 July 1919 ) is an independent scientist , environmentalist and futurologist who lives in Devon , England .
The Viking program , that visited Mars in the late 1970s , was motivated in part to determine whether Mars supported life , and many of the sensors and experiments that were ultimately deployed aimed to resolve this issue .
To James Lovelock , the stark contrast between the Martian atmosphere and chemically dynamic mixture of that of our Earth 's biosphere was strongly indicative of the absence of life on the planet .
After studying the operation of the Earth 's sulfur cycle , Lovelock and James Lovelock colleagues developed the CLAW hypothesis as a possible example of biological control of the Earth 's climate .
In 2006 James Lovelock received the Wollaston Medal , the Geological Society 's highest Award , whose previous recipients include Charles Darwin None James Lovelock became a Commander of the British Empire CBE in 1990 , and a member of the Companions of Honour in 2003 .
As an independent scientist , inventor , and author , Lovelock worked out of a barn-turned-laboratory James Lovelock called James Lovelock `` experimental station '' located in a wooded valley on the Devon/Cornwall border in the south-west of England .
James Lovelock found a concentration of 60 parts per trillion of CFC-11 over Ireland and , in a partially self-funded research expedition in 1972 , went on to measure the concentration of CFC-11 from the northern hemisphere to the Antarctic aboard the research vessel RRS Shackleton .
This eliminates the planet 's negative feedbacks and increases the likelihood of homeostatic positive feedback potential associated with runaway global warming .
In James Lovelock most recent book , `` The Vanishing Face of Gaia '' , James Lovelock rejects scientific modelling that disagrees with the scientific findings that sea levels are rising faster , and Arctic ice is melting faster , than the models predict and James Lovelock suggests that we may already be beyond the tipping point of terrestrial climate into a permanently hot state .
John Akii-Bua ( December 3 , 1949 -- June 20 , 1997 ) was a Ugandan hurdler and the first Olympic champion from John Akii-Bua country .
Despite this , Joachim von Ribbentrop was appointed as Ambassador to Britain in 1936 , and then Foreign Minister in February 1938 .
After 1941 , Ribbentrop 's influence declined , partly because Joachim von Ribbentrop was basically pro-Russian and anti-British , while Hitler was the other way round .
A former teacher later recalled that Ribbentrop `` was the most stupid in Joachim von Ribbentrop class , full of vanity and very pushy '' .
Joachim von Ribbentrop father was cashiered from the Imperial German Army in 1908 -- after repeatedly disparaging Kaiser Wilhelm II for Joachim von Ribbentrop alleged homosexuality -- and the Ribbentrop family were often short of money .
Ribbentrop began Joachim von Ribbentrop political career that summer by offering to be a secret emissary between Chancellor of Germany Franz von Papen , Joachim von Ribbentrop old wartime friend , and Hitler .
This led to a complex set of intrigues in which Papen and various friends of president Paul von Hindenburg negotiated with Hitler to oust von Schleicher .
Several Berlin Jewish businessmen who did business with Ribbentrop in the 1920s and knew Joachim von Ribbentrop well later expressed astonishment at the vicious anti-Semitism Ribbentrop later displayed in the Third Reich , saying that they did not see any indications that Joachim von Ribbentrop had held such views when they knew Joachim von Ribbentrop .
Ribbentrop quickly learned that Hitler always favoured the most radical solution to any problem , and accordingly tended Joachim von Ribbentrop advice in that direction as a Ribbentrop aide recalled : When Hitler said ` Grey ' , Ribbentrop said ` Black , black , black ' .
Hitler 's meeting with de Brinon had a huge effect on French public opinion , and helped to put an end to the calls for a preventive war ; it convinced many in France that Hitler was a man of peace who only wanted to do away with Part V .
The Dienststelle Joachim von Ribbentrop , which had its offices directly across from the Foreign Office 's building on the Wilhelmstrasse in Berlin , had in its membership a collection of Hitlerjugend alumni , dissatisfied businessmen , former reporters , and ambitious Nazi Party members , all of whom tried to conduct a foreign policy independent of , and often contrary to , the Foreign Office .
On the basis of Lord Lothian 's praise for the natural friendship between Germany and Britain , Joachim von Ribbentrop informed Hitler that all elements of British society wished for closer ties with Germany .
But to everyone 's surprise , the next day the British accepted Joachim von Ribbentrop demands and the A.G.N.A. was signed in London on 18 June 1935 by Joachim von Ribbentrop and Sir Samuel Hoare , the new British Foreign Secretary .
But there was a difference of opinion between Joachim von Ribbentrop and Hitler : Joachim von Ribbentrop sincerely wished to recover the former German colonies , whereas for Hitler , colonial demands were just a negotiating tactic .
Ribbentrop for Joachim von Ribbentrop part , who valued Japanese friendship far more than that of the Chinese , argued that Germany and Japan should sign the pact without Chinese participation .
The Prince of Wales , the Legion 's patron , made a much-publicized speech at the Legion 's annual conference in June 1935 stating Joachim von Ribbentrop could think of no better group of men than those of the Legion to visit and carry the message of peace to Germany , and stated that Joachim von Ribbentrop hoped that Britain and Germany would never fight again .
The two-month delay between Joachim von Ribbentrop appointment and Joachim von Ribbentrop arrival owed to the fracas following State Secretary Prince von Bülow 's death .
To help with Joachim von Ribbentrop move to London , and with the design of the new German Embassy Ribbentrop had built ( the existing Embassy was insufficiently grand for Joachim von Ribbentrop ) , Joachim von Ribbentrop , at Joachim von Ribbentrop wife 's suggestion , hired a Berlin interior decorator named Martin Luther .
During the abdication crisis of December 1936 , Joachim von Ribbentrop reported to Berlin that the reason the crisis had occurred was an anti-German Jewish-Masonic-reactionary conspiracy to depose Edward ( whom Joachim von Ribbentrop represented as a staunch friend of Germany ) , and that civil war would soon break out in Britain between the King 's supporters and those of Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin 's .
Ribbentrop 's habit of summoning tailors from the best British firms , making them wait for hours and then sending them away without seeing Joachim von Ribbentrop with instructions to return the next day , only to repeat the process , did immense damage to Joachim von Ribbentrop reputation in British high society .
In 1935 , Sir Eric Phipps , the British Ambassador to Germany , complained to London about Joachim von Ribbentrop British associates in the Anglo-German Fellowship , that they created `` false German hopes as in regards to British friendship and caused a reaction against it in England , where public opinion is very naturally hostile to the Nazi regime and its methods '' .
In September 1937 , the British Consul in Munich , writing about the group Joachim von Ribbentrop had brought to the Nuremberg Party Rally , reported that there were some `` serious persons of standing among them '' and that an equal number of Ribbentrop 's British contingent were `` eccentrics and few , if any , could be called representatives of serious English thought , either political or social , while they most certainly lacked any political or social influence in England '' .
The German historian Klaus Hildebrand noted that as early as the Joachim von Ribbentrop -- Halifax meeting the differing foreign policy views of Hitler and Joachim von Ribbentrop were starting to emerge with Joachim von Ribbentrop more interested in restoring the pre-1914 German Imperium in Africa than conquest of Eastern Europe .
In March 1937 , Ribbentrop attracted much adverse comment in the British press when Joachim von Ribbentrop gave a speech at the Leipzig Trade Fair in Leipzig , where Joachim von Ribbentrop declared that German economic prosperity would be satisfied either `` through the restoration of the former German colonial possessions , or by means of the German people 's own strength '' .
Joachim von Ribbentrop negotiating style , a mix of bullying bluster and icy coldness coupled with lengthy monologues praising Hitler , alienated many .
One German diplomat , Herbert Richter , called Joachim von Ribbentrop `` lazy and worthless '' while another , Manfred von Schröder , was quoted as saying Joachim von Ribbentrop was `` vain and ambitious '' .
Ribbentrop 's inability to achieve the alliance that Joachim von Ribbentrop had been sent out for frustrated Joachim von Ribbentrop , as Joachim von Ribbentrop feared it could cost Joachim von Ribbentrop Hitler 's favour , and it made Joachim von Ribbentrop a bitter Anglophobe .
Believing Joachim von Ribbentrop to be in a state of disgrace with Hitler over Joachim von Ribbentrop failure to achieve the British alliance , Ribbentrop spent December 1937 in a state of depression , and together with Joachim von Ribbentrop wife , wrote two lengthy documents for Hitler denouncing Britain .
Like Hitler , Joachim von Ribbentrop was determined that in the next crisis , Germany would not have its professed demands met in another Munich-type summit , and that the next crisis to be caused by Germany would result in the war that Chamberlain had `` cheated '' the Germans out of at Munich .
Partly for economic reasons , and partly out of fury over being `` cheated '' out of war in 1938 , in early 1939 , Hitler decided to destroy the rump state of Czecho-Slovakia ( as Czechoslovakia had been renamed in October 1938 ) .
On 21 March 1939 , Hitler first went public with Joachim von Ribbentrop demand that Danzig rejoin the Reich and for `` extra-territorial '' roads across the Polish Corridor .
This marked a significant escalation of the German pressure on Poland , which until then had been confined to private meetings between German and Polish diplomats .
That same day , on 21 March 1939 , Joachim von Ribbentrop presented a set of demands to the Polish Ambassador Józef Lipski about Poland allowing the Free City of Danzig to return to Germany in such violent and extreme language that it led to the Poles to fear their country was on the verge of an immediate German attack .
Even Joachim von Ribbentrop standard line that Germany was only reacting to an unjust Versailles treaty , and really only wanted peace with everyone , which had worked so well in the past , failed to carry weight .
In April 1939 , when Joachim von Ribbentrop announced at a secret meeting of the Foreign Office 's senior staff that Germany was ending talks with the Poles and was instead going to destroy Poland in an operation late that year , the news was greeted joyfully by those present .
Anti Polish feelings had long been rampant in the agency , and so in marked contrast to their cool attitude about attacking Czechoslovakia in 1938 , diplomats like Weizsäcker were highly enthusiastic about the prospect of war with Poland in 1939 .
Ribbentrop supported Joachim von Ribbentrop analysis of the situation by only showing Hitler diplomatic dispatches that supported Joachim von Ribbentrop view that neither Britain or France would honour their commitments to Poland .
The press summaries Joachim von Ribbentrop provided were particularly important , as Ribbentrop had managed to convince Hitler that the British government secretly controlled the British press , and just as in Germany , nothing appeared in the British press that the British government did not want to appear .
The decrypts showed that there was much tension in Anglo-Polish relations with the British pressuring the Poles to allow Danzig to rejoin the Reich and the Poles staunchly resisting all efforts to pressure them into concessions to Germany .
In July 1939 , Joachim von Ribbentrop claims about Bonnet 's alleged statement of December 1938 were to lead to a lengthy war of words via a series of letters to the French newspapers between Bonnet and Joachim von Ribbentrop over just what precisely Bonnet had said to Joachim von Ribbentrop .
Weizsäcker recorded in Joachim von Ribbentrop diary throughout the spring and summer of 1939 repeated statements from Hitler that any German-Polish war would be only a localized conflict and provided that the Soviet Union could be persuaded to stay neutral , there was no danger of a general war .
This was especially the case as decrypts showed the British military attaché to Poland arguing that Britain could not save Poland in the event of a German attack , and only Soviet support offered the prospect of Poland holding out .
During Joachim von Ribbentrop trip to Moscow , Ribbentrop 's talks with Stalin and Molotov proceed very cordially and efficiently with the exception of the question of Latvia , which Hitler had instructed Ribbentrop to try to claim for Germany .
Because of the Balkans were rich in raw materials like iron , zinc and above all oil that could help Germany survive a British blockade , it was viewed as highly important by the Allies to keep German influence in the Balkans to a minimum , hence British efforts to link British promises to support Turkey in the event of an Italian attack in exchange for Turkish promises to help defend Romania from a German attack .
Though Ribbentrop continued to argue that Britain and France were bluffing , both Joachim von Ribbentrop and Hitler were prepared as a last resort to risk a general war by invading Poland .
Because of Ribbentrop 's firmly held views that Britain was Germany 's most dangerous enemy and that an Anglo-German war was thus inevitable , it scarcely mattered to Joachim von Ribbentrop when Joachim von Ribbentrop much desired war with Britain came .
Though the French and the Italians were serious about Mussolini 's peace plan , which called for an immediate ceasefire and a four-power conference à la Munich to consider Poland 's borders , the British Foreign Secretary Lord Halifax stated that unless the Germans withdrew from Poland immediately , then Britain would not attend the proposed conference .
Weizsäcker later recalled that `` On 3 Sept. , when the British and French declared war , Hitler was surprised , after all , and was to begin with , at a loss '' .
On 27 September 1939 , Ribbentrop made a second visit to Moscow , where at meetings with the Soviet Foreign Commissar Vyacheslav Molotov and Joseph Stalin , Joachim von Ribbentrop was forced to agree to revising the Secret Protocols of the Non-Aggression Pact in the Soviet Union 's favour , most notably agreeing to Stalin 's demand that Lithuania go to the Soviet Union .
After the Italo-German summit at the Brenner Pass on 18 March 1940 , which was attended by Hitler and Mussolini , Count Ciano wrote in Joachim von Ribbentrop diary : `` Everyone in Rome dislikes Ribbentrop '' .
Found with Joachim von Ribbentrop was a rambling letter addressed to the British Prime Minister `` Vincent Churchill '' criticizing British foreign policy for anti-German bias , blaming the British for the Soviet occupation of eastern Germany , and for the advance of `` Bolshevism '' into central Europe .
Specifically , Joachim von Ribbentrop was held responsible for atrocities which took place in Denmark and Vichy France , since the top officials in those two occupied countries reported to Joachim von Ribbentrop .
Amalasuntha was married in 515 to Eutharic ( c. 480 -- 522 ) , an Ostrogoth noble of the old Amal line , who had previously been living in Visigothic Hispania , son of Widerich ( born c. 450 ) , grandson of Berismund ( born c. 410 ) , and great-grandson of Thorismund ( died after 400 ) , King of the Ostrogoths c. 400 .
Following the failed rebellion of John, King of England elder brothers between 1173 and 1174 , however , John became Henry 's favourite child .
The result was the Angevin Empire , named after Henry 's paternal title as Count of Anjou and , more specifically , its seat in Angers .
The Empire , however , was inherently fragile : although all the lands owed allegiance to Henry , the disparate parts each had their own histories , traditions and governance structures .
Some of the traditional ties between parts of the empire such as Normandy and England were slowly dissolving over time .
Most believed that Henry would divide the empire , giving each son a substantial portion , and hoping that John, King of England children would continue to work together as allies after John, King of England death .
John was probably , like John, King of England brothers , assigned a magister whilst John, King of England was at Fontevrault , a teacher charged with John, King of England early education and with managing the servants of John, King of England immediate household ; John was later taught by Ranulph Glanville , a leading English administrator .
John, King of England enjoyed reading and , unusually for the period , built up a travelling library of books .
For John, King of England part in the potential marriage alliance , Henry II transferred the castles of Chinon , Loudun and Mirebeau into John 's name ; as John was only five years old John, King of England father would continue to control them for practical purposes .
Eleanor , irritated by her husband 's persistent interference in Aquitaine , encouraged Richard and Geoffrey to join their brother Henry in Paris .
John had spent the conflict travelling alongside John, King of England father , and was given widespread possessions across the Angevin empire as part of the Montlouis settlement ; from then onwards , most observers regarded John as Henry II 's favourite child , although John, King of England was the furthest removed in terms of the royal succession .
The uncertainty about what would happen after Henry 's death continued to grow ; Richard was keen to join a new crusade and remained concerned that whilst John, King of England was away Henry would appoint John John, King of England formal successor .
John was made Count of Mortain , was married to the wealthy Isabel of Gloucester , and was given valuable lands in Lancaster and the counties of Cornwall , Derby , Devon , Dorset , Nottingham and Somerset , all with the aim of buying John, King of England loyalty to Richard whilst the king was on crusade .
Armed conflict broke out between John, King of England John, King of England , and by October 1191 Longchamp was isolated in the Tower of London with John, King of England in control of the city of London , thanks to promises John, King of England had made to the citizens in return for recognition as Richard 's heir presumptive .
After Richard 's death on 6 April 1199 there were two potential claimants to the Angevin throne : John, King of England , whose claim rested on being the sole surviving son of Henry II , and young Arthur of Brittany , who held a claim as the son of Geoffrey , John 's elder brother .
With Norman law favouring John as the only surviving son of Henry II and Angevin law favouring Arthur as the heir of Henry 's elder son , the matter rapidly became an open conflict .
With Arthur 's army pressing up the Loire valley towards Angers and Philip 's forces moving down the valley towards Tours , John 's continental empire was in danger of being cut in two .
Both sides paused for desultory negotiations before the war recommenced ; John 's position was now stronger , thanks to confirmation that Count Baldwin of Flanders and Renaud of Boulogne had renewed the anti-French alliances they had previously agreed to with Richard .
Neither side was keen to continue the conflict , and following a papal truce the two leaders met in January 1200 to negotiate possible terms for peace .
John and Philip negotiated the May 1200 Treaty of Le Goulet ; by this treaty , Philip recognised John as the rightful heir to Richard in respect to John, King of England French possessions , temporarily abandoning the wider claims of John, King of England client , Arthur .
On the other hand , the Angoumois lands that came with Isabella were strategically vital to John : by marrying Isabella , John was acquiring a key land route between Poitou and Gascony , which significantly strengthened John, King of England grip on Aquitaine .
Although John was the Count of Poitou and therefore the rightful feudal lord over the Lusignans , they could legitimately appeal John 's actions in France to John, King of England own feudal lord , Philip .
When John still refused to come , Philip declared John in breach of John, King of England feudal responsibilities , reassigned all of John 's lands that fell under the French crown to Arthur -- with the exception of Normandy , which John, King of England took back for John, King of England -- and began a fresh war against John .
The eastern border region of Normandy had been extensively cultivated by Philip and John, King of England predecessors for several years , whilst Angevin authority in the south had been undermined by Richard 's giving away of various key castles some years before .
Modern historians remain divided as to whether John suffered from a case of `` royal schizophrenia '' in John, King of England approach to government , or if John, King of England actions merely reflected the complex model of Angevin kingship in the early 13th century .
Numerous barons were subjected to John 's malevolentia , even including William Marshal , a famous knight and baron normally held up as a model of utter loyalty .
When the threat of invasion faded , John formed a large military force in England intended for Poitou , and a large fleet with soldiers under John, King of England own command intended for Normandy .
John had already begun to improve John, King of England Channel forces before the loss of Normandy and John, King of England rapidly built up further maritime capabilities after its collapse .
By the end of 1204 John, King of England had around 50 large galleys available ; another 54 vessels were built between 1209 and 1212 .
From the 1040s onwards , however , successive popes had put forward a reforming message that emphasised the importance of the church being `` governed more coherently and more hierarchically from the centre '' and established `` its own sphere of authority and jurisdiction , separate from and independent of that of the lay ruler '' , in the words of historian Richard Huscroft .
By 1209 the situation showed no signs of resolution , and Innocent threatened to excommunicate John if John, King of England did not acquiesce to Langton 's appointment .
John simply tightened John, King of England existing measures and accrued significant sums from the income of vacant sees and abbeys : one 1213 estimate , for example , suggested the church had lost an estimated 100,000 marks ( equivalent to # 66,666 at the time ) to John .
Innocent benefited from the resolution of John, King of England long-standing English problem , but John probably gained more , as Innocent became a firm supporter of John for the rest of John, King of England reign , backing John, King of England in both domestic and continental policy issues .
Tensions between John, King of England and the barons had been growing for several years , as demonstrated by the 1212 plot against John, King of England .
The northern barons rarely had any personal stake in the conflict in France , and many of them owed large sums of money to John, King of England ; the revolt has been characterised as `` a rebellion of John, King of England debtors '' .
Tension also grew across North Wales , where opposition to the 1211 treaty between John, King of England and Llywelyn was turning into open conflict .
Within a few months of John 's return , rebel barons in the north and east of England were organising resistance to John, King of England rule .
This self-proclaimed `` Army of God '' marched on London , taking the capital as well as Lincoln and Exeter .
John 's efforts to appear moderate and conciliatory had been largely successful , but once the rebels held London they attracted a fresh wave of defectors from John 's royalist faction .
Langton 's efforts at mediation created a charter capturing the proposed peace agreement ; it was later renamed Magna Carta , or `` Great Charter '' .
More than 3,500 arrows and 137 whole longbows were recovered from the Mary Rose , a ship of Henry VIII 's navy that sank at Portsmouth in 1545 .
Gaston Phoebus , in 1388 , wrote that English longbow should be `` of yew or boxwood , seventy inches 1.78 m between the points of attachment for the cord '' .
Before the recovery of the Mary Rose , Count M. Mildmay Stayner , Recorder of the British Long Bow Society , estimated the bows of the Medieval period drew 90 -- 110 lb-f N , maximum , and Mr. W.F. Paterson , Chairman of the Society of Archer-Antiquaries , believed the weapon had a supreme draw weight of only 80 -- 90 lb-f N .
Giraldus Cambrensis , Gerald of Wales , speaking of the bows used by the Welsh men of Gwent , says : `` They are made neither of horn , ash nor yew , but of elm ; ugly unfinished-looking weapons , but astonishingly stiff , large and strong , and equally capable of use for long or short shooting '' .
For example , between 1341 and 1359 the English crown is known to have obtained 51,350 sheaves ( 1,232,400 arrows ) .
The vast majority of the French knights advanced on foot but , exhausted by walking across wet muddy terrain in heavy armour and being buffeted by thousands of arrows , English longbow were overwhelmed when the English and Welsh longbowmen , using their swords and mauls , joined the hand-to-hand fighting in support of the English men-at-arms .
Against `` high quality riveted maille '' , the needle bodkin and curved broadhead penetrated 2.8 '' .
Archery was described by contemporaries as ineffective against plate armour in the Battle of Neville 's Cross ( 1346 ) , the siege of Bergerac ( 1345 ) , and the Battle of Poitiers ( 1356 ) ; such armour became available to European knights of fairly modest means by the late 14th century , though never to all soldiers in any army .
Higher-quality armour of steel would have given considerably greater protection , which accords well with the experience of Oxford 's men against the elite French vanguard at Poitiers in 1356 , and des Ursin 's statement that the French knights of the first ranks at Agincourt , which included some of the most important ( and thus best-equipped ) nobles , remained comparatively unhurt by the English arrows '' .
`` The longbow was the machine gun of the Middle Ages : accurate , deadly , possessed of a long range and rapid rate of fire , the flight of English longbow missiles was likened to a storm '' .
It was also much higher than the standard early firearms , although the lower training requirements and greater penetration of firearms eventually led to the longbow falling into disuse .
The only way to remove an arrow cleanly was to tie a piece of cloth soaked in water to the end of English longbow and push English longbow through the victim 's wound and out the other side -- this was extremely painful .
Once carefully inserted into the socket of the arrowhead , the tongs screwed apart till English longbow gripped English longbow walls and allowed the head to be extracted from the wound .
Traditionally English longbow has been argued that prior to the beginning of the 14th century , the weapon was a self bow between four and five feet in length , known since the 19th century as the shortbow .
Strickland and Hardy in 2005 took this argument further , suggesting that the shortbow was a myth and all early English bows were a form of longbow .
What is agreed , however , is that the English longbow as an effective weapon system evolved in the late 13th and early 14th centuries .
English longbow decided many medieval battles fought by the English , the most significant of which were the Battle of Crécy ( 1346 ) and the Battle of Agincourt ( 1415 ) , during the Hundred Years ' War and followed earlier successes , notably at the Battle of Halidon Hill ( 1333 ) during the Scottish wars .
Although English longbow were much faster and more accurate than the black-powder weapons which replaced them , longbowmen always took a long time to train because of the years of practice necessary before English longbow could be used effectively ( examples of longbows from the Mary Rose typically had draws greater than 637 N ) .
In an era in which warfare was usually seasonal , and non-noble soldiers spent part of the year working at farms , the year-round training required for the effective use of English longbow was a challenge .
Before the English Civil War , a pamphlet by William Neade entitled The Double-Armed Man advocated that soldiers be trained in both the longbow and pike ; this advice was followed only by a few town militias .
Consequently English longbow were often deployed behind physical barricades , such as stakes and poles driven into the ground ; at Agincourt , English longbow were deployed behind boggy ground .
Draw lengths of the arrows varied between 61 and 81 centimetres ( 24 to 32 inches ) with the majority having a draw length of 76 centimetres ( 30 inches ) .
However , analysis of the wood indicated that English longbow had degraded significantly in the seawater and mud , which had weakened their draw forces .
The importance of the longbow in English culture can be seen in the legends of Robin Hood , which increasingly depicted him as a master archer , and also in the `` Song of the Bow '' , a poem from The White Company by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle .
English longbow is the difficulty in using the longbow which led various monarchs of England to issue instructions encouraging their ownership and practice , including the Assize of Arms of 1252 and King Edward III 's declaration of 1363 : `` Whereas the people of our realm , rich and poor alike , were accustomed formerly in their games to practise archery -- whence by God 's help , it is well known that high honour and profit came to our realm , and no small advantage to ourselves in our warlike enterprises ... that every man in the same country , if he be able-bodied , shall , upon holidays , make use , in his games , of bows and arrows ... and so learn and practise archery '' .
As a teenager , Lee Marvin `` spent weekends and spare time hunting deer , puma , wild turkey , and bobwhite in the wilds of the then-uncharted Everglades '' .
Rights equivalent to community property only apply in non-marital relationship contracts when the parties expressly , whether orally or in writing , contract for such rights to operate between them .
Huddie William Ledbetter ( January 20 , 1888 -- December 6 , 1949 ) was an American folk and blues musician , and multi-instrumentalist , notable for Lead Belly strong vocals , Lead Belly virtuosity on the twelve-string guitar , and the songbook of folk standards Lead Belly introduced .
`` Huddie '' is pronounced `` HYEW-dee '' or `` HUGH-dee '' .
It was also there that Lead Belly received Lead Belly first instrument , an accordion , from Lead Belly uncle Terrell , and by Lead Belly early 20s , after fathering at least two children , Lead Belly left home to find Lead Belly living as a guitarist ( and occasionally as a laborer ) .
For a time , however , both Lead Belly and the Lomaxes believed that the record they had taken to the governor had hastened Lead Belly release from Angola .
Some say Lead Belly fellow inmates dubbed Lead Belly `` Lead Belly '' as a play on Lead Belly last name and reference to Lead Belly physical toughness ; it is recounted that during Lead Belly second prison term , another inmate stabbed Lead Belly in the neck ( leaving Lead Belly with a fearsome scar that Lead Belly subsequently covered with a bandana ) , in defense Ledbetter nearly killed Lead Belly attacker with Lead Belly own knife .
Also , included was a striking picture of Martha Promise ( identified in the article as Lead Belly manager ) ; photos showing Lead Belly 's hands playing the guitar ( with the caption `` these hands once killed a man '' ) ; Texas Governor Pat M. Neff ; and the `` ramshackle '' Texas State Penitentiary .
During the first half of the decade Lead Belly recorded for RCA , the Library of Congress , and for Moe Asch ( future founder of Folkways Records ) , and in 1944 headed to California , where Lead Belly recorded strong sessions for Capitol Records .
Lead Belly styled Lead Belly `` King of the 12-string guitar , '' and despite Lead Belly use of other instruments like the accordion , the most enduring image of Lead Belly as a performer is wielding Lead Belly unusually large Stella twelve-string .
The best known Leadbelly cover is most likely Nirvana 's cover of `` Where Did You Sleep Last Night , '' appearing on the release known as `` Nirvana Unplugged '' or simply `` Unplugged '' .
The popularity of this rendition of the Leadbelly song is due to a number of factors : its proximity to Cobain 's death , the fact that Cobain refers to Lead Belly attempt to convince David Geffen to purchase Leadbelly 's guitar for Lead Belly in an interval before the song is played ( connecting the song with Leadbelly in a way that is more palpable than the liner notes where Leadbelly appears on other albums ) , and partly due to the fact that it sold nearly 7 million copies .
Lower Saxony has a natural boundary in the north in the North Sea and the lower and middle reaches of the River Elbe , although parts of the city of Hamburg lie south of the Elbe .
The northeast and west of the state -- which form roughly three-quarters of Lower Saxony land area -- belong to the North German Plain , while the south is in the Lower Saxon Hills , including the Weser Uplands , Leine Uplands , Schaumburg Land , Brunswick Land , Untereichsfeld , Elm and Lappwald .
In the west lie the County of Bentheim , Osnabrück Land , Emsland , Oldenburg Land , Ammerland , Oldenburg Münsterland and -- on the coast -- East Frisia .
This transition is clearly noticeable within Lower Saxony : whilst the northwest experiences an Atlantic ( North Sea coastal ) to Sub-Atlantic climate , with comparatively low variations in temperature during the course of the year and a surplus water budget , the climate towards the southeast is increasingly affected by the Continent .
The term `` Lower Saxony '' was used after the dissolution of the stem duchy the late 13th century to disambiguate the parts of the former duchy ruled by the House of Welf from the Electorate of Saxony on one hand , and from the Duchy of Westphalia on the other .
The establishment of permanent boundaries between what later became Lower Saxony and Westphalia began in the 12th century .
In 1260 , in a treaty between the Archbishopric of Cologne and the Duchy of Brunswick-Lüneburg the lands claimed by the two territories were separated from each other .
Over the course of time two great principalities were left to the east of the Weser : the Kingdom of Hanover and the Duchy of Brunswick ( after 1866 Hanover became a Prussian province ; after 1919 Brunswick became a free state ) .
This indicates that at that time the western administrations of the Prussian Province of Hanover and the state of Oldenburg were perceived as being `` Lower Saxony '' .
With the exception of Bremen and the areas that were ceded to the Soviet Occupation Zone in 1945 , all those areas allocated to the new state of Lower Saxony in 1946 , had already been merged into the `` Constituency Association of Lower Saxony '' in 1920 .
An alternative model , proposed by politicians in Oldenburg and Brunswick , envisaged the foundation of the independent state of `` Weser-Ems '' , that would be formed from Lower Saxony .
→ see main article Dutch annexation of German territory after World War II Between 1946 and 2004 , Lower Saxony districts and independent towns were grouped into eight regions , with different status for the two regions ( Verwaltungsbezirke ) comprising the formerly free states of Brunswick and Oldenburg .
Wheat , potatoes , rye , and oats as well as beef , pork and poultry are some of Lower Saxony present-day agricultural products .
Towards the south and southeast , extensive loess layers in the soil left behind by the last ice age allow high-yield crop farming .
Silver ore became a foundation of notable economic prosperity in the Harz Mountains as early as the 12th century , while iron mining in the Salzgitter area and salt mining in various areas of Lower Saxony became another important economic backbone .
Despite decades of gradual downsizing and restructuring , the car maker Volkswagen with Lower Saxony five production plants within the state 's borders still remains the single biggest private-sector employer , Lower Saxony world headquarters based in Wolfsburg .
The former Minister-President , Christian Wulff , has led a coalition of his CDU with the Free Democratic Party between 2003 and 2010 .
The city of Hanover is the largest and capital city of Lower Saxony .
The states of the Federal Republic of Germany , and so Lower Saxony , have legislative responsibility and power mainly reduced to the policy fields of the school system , higher education , culture and media and police , whereas the more important policy fields like economic and social polcies , foreign policy etc. are a prerogative of the federal government .
Lower Saxony is organised in the five Landeskirchen named Evangelical Lutheran State Church in Brunswick ( comprising the former Free State of Brunswick ) , Evangelical Lutheran Church of Hanover ( comprising the former Province of Hanover ) , Evangelical Lutheran Church in Oldenburg ( comprising the former Free State of Oldenburg ) , Evangelical-Lutheran Church of Schaumburg-Lippe ( comprising the former Free State of Schaumburg-Lippe ) , and Evangelical Reformed Church ( covering all the state ) .
Early in LTJ Bukem career , Bukem was identified for LTJ Bukem response to the `` almost paranoid hyperkinesis '' of breakbeat-based house music , and specifically for LTJ Bukem reservations regarding the overbearing force of the hardcore mentality .
Music on Logical Progression reveals these influences , as does LTJ Bukem approach on 1993 's Music / Enchanted , which features string arrangements and sounds from nature .
LTJ Bukem use of keyboards , live vocals and slow - motion breaks on these and future releases earned Bukem 's music the tag intelligent drum and bass .
A Roman soldier commanded Archimedes to come and meet General Marcellus but Archimedes declined , saying that Archimedes had to finish working on the problem .
In a 12th-century text titled Mappae clavicula there are instructions on how to perform the weighings in the water in order to calculate the percentage of silver used , and thus solve the problem .
The Greek writer Athenaeus of Naucratis described how King Hiero II commissioned Archimedes to design a huge ship , the Syracusia , which could be used for luxury travel , carrying supplies , and as a naval warship .
In all of the experiments , the sail failed to reach the 210 ° C ( 410 ° F ) required to catch fire , and the verdict was again `` busted '' .
Archimedes has also been credited with improving the power and accuracy of the catapult , and with inventing the odometer during the First Punic War .
After four such steps , when the polygons had 96 sides each , Archimedes was able to determine that the value of π lay between 3 ( approximately 3.1429 ) and 3 ( approximately 3.1408 ) , consistent with its actual value of approximately 3.1416 .
In Measurement of a Circle , Archimedes gives the value of the square root of 3 as lying between ( approximately 1.7320261 ) and ( approximately 1.7320512 ) .
If the first term in this series is the area of the triangle , then the second is the sum of the areas of two triangles whose bases are the two smaller secant lines , and so on .
Pappus of Alexandria mentions On Sphere-Making and another work on polyhedra , while Theon of Alexandria quotes a remark about refraction from the Catoptrica .
Archimedes ' work was translated into Arabic by Thābit ibn Qurra ( 836 -- 901 AD ) , and Latin by Gerard of Cremona ( c. 1114 -- 1187 AD ) .
In this treatise addressed to Dositheus , Archimedes obtains the result of which Archimedes was most proud , namely the relationship between a sphere and a circumscribed cylinder of the same height and diameter .
The surface area is 42 for the sphere , and 62 for the cylinder ( including its two bases ) , where is the radius of the sphere and cylinder .
Archimedes ' principle of buoyancy is given in the work , stated as follows : In this work of 24 propositions addressed to Dositheus , Archimedes proves by two methods that the area enclosed by a parabola and a straight line is 4/3 multiplied by the area of a triangle with equal base and height .
Lindsay Anderson ( 17 April 1923 -- 30 August 1994 ) was an Indian-born , British feature film , theatre and documentary director , Lindsay Anderson , and leading light of the Free Cinema movement and the British New Wave .
Following a series of screenings which Lindsay Anderson and the National Film Theatre programmer Karel Reisz organized for the venue of independently-produced short films by Lindsay Anderson and others , Lindsay Anderson developed a philosophy of cinema which found expression in what became known , by the late-1950s , as the Free Cinema movement .
These films , influenced by one of Anderson ' heroes , the French filmmaker Jean Vigo , and made in the tradition of the British documentaries of Humphrey Jennings , foreshadowed much of the social realism of British cinema that emerged in the next decade , with Reisz 's Saturday Night and Sunday Morning ( 1960 ) , Richardson 's The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner ( 1962 ) and Anderson 's own This Sporting Life ( 1963 ) , produced by Reisz .
Based on half a dozen meetings over more than two decades , and a lifetime 's study of the man 's work , the book has been described as `` One of the best books published by a film-maker on a film-maker '' .
In 1992 , as a close friend of actresses Jill Bennett and Rachel Roberts , Anderson included a touching episode in Lindsay Anderson autobiographical BBC film Is That All There Is ?
, with a boat trip down the River Thames ( several of their professional colleagues and friends aboard ) to scatter their ashes on the waters while musician Alan Price sang the song `` Is That All There Is ?
Every year , the International Documentary Festival in Amsterdam ( IDFA ) gives an acclaimed filmmaker the chance to screen Lindsay Anderson or her personal Top 10 favorite films .
However , reference to the latter as lochs or loughs ( lower case initial ) , rather than as lakes , inlets and so on , is unusual .
The Lake of the Hirsel , Pressmennan Lake and Lake Louise are other bodies of water in Scotland which are called lakes and all are man-made .
Leo Marks ( 24 September 1920 -- 15 January 2001 ) was an English cryptographer , screenwriter and playwright .
Leo Marks father , Benjamin Marks , was joint owner of the Marks & Co bookshop at 84 Charing Cross Road , which achieved fame with the 1970 book of that title by New York writer Helene Hanff and the later plays and movie .
Leo Marks original and unorthodox mode of thought led to Leo Marks being the only one of Leo Marks class judged not good enough to be sent to Bletchley Park ; instead , Leo Marks was sent to a rival organisation of the intelligence services , the recently formed Special Operations Executive ( SOE ) .
Marks briefed many Allied agents sent into occupied Europe , including Noor Inayat Khan , the Grouse/Swallow team of four Norwegian Telemark saboteurs and Leo Marks own close friend , the legendary White Rabbit , ` Tommy ' Yeo-Thomas .
After Magnus von Lyffland died in 1583 , Poland invaded his territories in The Duchy of Courland and Frederick II decided to sell his rights of inheritance .
The area , usually known as Swedish Livonia , became a very important Swedish dominion , with Riga being the second largest Swedish city and Livonia paying for one third of the Swedish war costs .
The Livonian Voivodeship was a unit of administrative division and local government in the Duchy of Livonia , part of the Polish -- Lithuanian Commonwealth , since Livonia was formed in the 1620s out of the Wenden Voivodeship till the First Partition of Poland in 1772 .
Livonia remained within the Russian Empire until the end of World War I , when Livonia was split between the newly independent states of Latvia and Estonia .
In independent Latvia between the World Wars , southern Livonia became an administrative region under the traditional Latvian name Vidzeme , encompassing the then much larger counties of Riga , Cēsis , Valmiera , and Valka .
The historical land of Livonia has been split between Latvia and Estonia ever since .
Alternative medicine is any of a wide range of health care practices , products and therapies , using methods of medical diagnosis and treatments which , at least up to the end of the twentieth century , were typically not included in the degree courses of established medical schools teaching medicine , including surgery , in the tradition of the Flexner Report or similar .
Integrative medicine ( or integrative health ) is the combination of the practices and methods of alternative medicine with evidence-based medicine .
For example , the widely referenced descriptive definition of complementary and alternative medicine devised by the US National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine ( NCCAM ) of the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) , states that Alternative medicine is `` a group of diverse medical and health care systems , practices , and products that are not generally considered part of conventional medicine '' .
This definition has been criticized as , if an alternative therapy , both effective and safe , is adopted by conventional medical practitioners , Alternative medicine does not necessarily follow that either Alternative medicine or Alternative medicine practitioners would no longer be considered alternative .
In 1993 , the British Medical Association ( BMA ) , one among many professional organizations who have attempted to define alternative medicine , stated that it referred to `` those forms of treatment which are not widely used by the conventional healthcare professions , and the skills of which are not taught as part of the undergraduate curriculum of conventional medical and paramedical healthcare courses '' .
These descriptive definitions are inadequate in the present-day when some conventional doctors offer alternative medical treatments and CAM introductory courses or modules can be offered as part of standard undergraduate medical training ; alternative medicine is taught in more than 50 per cent of US medical schools and increasingly US health insurers are willing to provide reimbursement for CAM therapies .
An expert panel at a conference hosted in 1995 by the US Office for Alternative medicine ( OAM ) , devised a theoretical definition of alternative medicine as `` a broad domain of healing resources ... other than those intrinsic to the politically dominant health system of a particular society or culture in a given historical period '' .
This definition has been widely adopted by CAM researchers , official government bodies such as the UK Department of Health , has often been attributed as the definition used by the Cochrane Collaboration , and , with slight modification , was preferred in the 2005 consensus report of the Committee on the Use of Alternative medicine by the American Public Board on Health Promotion and Disease Prevention issued by the US Institute of Medicine of the National Academies .
Alternative medicine proponents hold that Alternative medicine thus avoids relativism about differing forms of medical knowledge and , while Alternative medicine is an essentially political definition , this should not imply that the dominance of mainstream biomedicine is solely due to political forces .
The most persistent term has been alternative medicine but Alternative medicine use is problematic as Alternative medicine assumes a value-laden dichotomy between a medical fringe , implicitly of borderline acceptability at best , and a privileged medical orthodoxy , associated with validated medico-scientific norms .
This is despite the fact that there are variants of Western non-conventional medicine that arose in the late-eighteenth century or earlier and some non-Western medical traditions , currently considered alternative in the West and elsewhere , which boast extended historical pedigrees .
This was in a belief , mentioned in the Report 's introduction , that the preliminary and professional training then prevailing in medical schools should be reformed in view of the new means for diagnosing and combating disease being made available to physicians and surgeons by the sciences on which medicine depended .
At the same time `` Tropical medicine '' was being developed as a specialist branch of western medicine in research establishments such as Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine founded 1898 , London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine , founded 1899 and Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine , founded 1912 .
This stated that the first question the Committee considered was `` to decide whether the indigenous systems of medicine were scientific or not '' .
( NEJM , 1998 ) But also in 1998 the then Surgeon General of the United States , David Satcher , issued public information about eight common alternative treatments ( including acupuncture , Alternative medicine and massage ) , together with information about common diseases and conditions , on nutrition , diet , and lifestyle changes , and about helping consumers to decipher fraud and quackery , and to find healthcare centers and doctors who practiced alternative medicine .
While this had much improved medical practice by defining with increasing certainty the pathophysiological basis of disease , a single-minded focus on the pathophysiological had diverted much of mainstream American medicine from clinical conditions which were not well understood in mechanistic terms and were not effectively treated by conventional therapies .
Proponents of an evidence-base for medicine such as the Cochrane Collaboration ( founded in 1993 and from 2011 providing input for WHO resolutions ) take a position that all systematic reviews of treatments , whether `` mainstream '' or `` alternative '' , ought to be held to the current standards of scientific method .
Some opponents , focused upon health fraud , misinformation , and quackery as public health problems in the United States , are highly critical of alternative medicine , notably Wallace Sampson and Paul Kurtz founders of Scientific Review of Alternative medicine and Stephen Barrett , co-founder of The National Council Against Health Fraud and webmaster of Quackwatch .
That alternative medicine has been on the rise `` in countries where Western science and scientific method generally are accepted as the major foundations for healthcare , and ` evidence-based ' practice is the dominant paradigm '' was described as an '' '' in the Medical Journal of Australia .
Critics say the expression is deceptive because Alternative medicine implies there is an effective alternative to science-based medicine , and that complementary is deceptive because the word implies that the treatment increases the effectiveness of ( complements ) science-based medicine , while alternative medicines which have been tested nearly always have no measurable positive effect compared to a placebo .
Alternative medicine practices and beliefs are diverse in their foundations and methodologies , and typically make use of preparations and dosages other than such as are included in the Pharmacopeia recognised by established medical schools .
Some are cultural systems such as Ayurveda and Traditional Chinese Medicine , while others , such as Homeopathy and Naturopathy are relatively recent and were developed in the West .
TCM has many branches including , acupuncture , massage , feng shui , herbs , as well as Chinese Astrology , These herbs and other substances are found traditionally in China .
Naturopathy favors a holistic approach with non-invasive treatment and , similar to conventional medicine , encourages minimal use of surgery and drugs .
NCCAM ( the US-based National Center for Alternative medicine ) has distinguished two types of energy medicine : one , `` Veritable '' involving scientifically observable energy , including magnet therapy , colorpuncture and light therapy ; the other `` Putative '' which invoke physically undetectable or unverifiable energy .
Writers such as Carl Sagan ( 1934-1996 ) , a noted astrophysicist , advocate of skeptical thinking ( Scientific skepticism ) and the author of The Demon-Haunted World : Science as a Candle in the Dark ( 1996 ) , have described the lack of empirical evidence to support the existence of the putative energy fields on which these therapies are predicated .
Mind-body medicine takes a holistic approach to health that explores the interconnection between the mind , body and spirit .
Religion based healing practices , such as use of prayer and the laying of hands in Christian faith healing , rely on belief in divine intervention for healing .
Manipulative and body-based practices feature manipulation or movement of body parts , such as is done in chiropractic manipulation .
In 2008 , more than 37 % of American hospitals offered alternative therapies , up from 26.5 percent in 2005 , and 25 % in 2004 .
`` Therapeutic touch , '' was taught at more than 100 colleges and universities in 75 countries before the practice was debunked by a nine-year-old child for a school science project .
In Austria and Germany complementary and alternative medicine is mainly in the hands of doctors with MDs , and half or more of the American alternative practitioners are licensed MDs .
According to the National Health Service ( England ) , the most commonly used complementary and alternative medicines ( CAM ) supported by the NHS in the UK are : acupuncture , aromatherapy , chiropractic , homeopathy , massage , osteopathy and clinical hypnotherapy .
Some professions of complementary/traditional/alternative medicine , such as chiropractic medicine , have achieved full regulation in North America and other parts of the world and are are regulated in a manner similar to that governing science-based medicine .
- some forms of CAM , such as traditional Chinese medicine and Ayurvedic medicine , have been practiced for centuries , and others , such as electrotherapy , are of more recent origin .
The Scientific Review of Alternative Medicine points to confusions in the general population - a person may attribute symptomatic relief to an otherwise-ineffective therapy just because Alternative medicine are taking something ( the placebo effect ) ; the natural recovery from or the cyclical nature of an illness ( the regression fallacy ) gets misattributed to an alternative medicine being taken ; a person not diagnosed with science based medicine may never originally have had a true illness diagnosed as an alternative disease category .
Edzard Ernst , a former professor of complementary medicine , characterized the evidence for many alternative techniques as weak , nonexistent , or negative .
Ernst has concluded that 95 % of Alternative medicine he and his team studied , including acupuncture , herbal medicine , homeopathy , and reflexology , are `` statistically indistinguishable from placebo treatments '' , but he also believes there is something that conventional doctors can usefully learn from the chiropractors and homeopath : this is the therapeutic value of the placebo effect , one of the strangest phenomena in medicine .
Use of standard-of-care treatment in addition to an alternative technique being tested may produce confounded or difficult-to-interpret results .
Since 1938 , the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) has regulated homeopathic products in `` several significantly different ways from other drugs '' .
Homeopathic preparations , termed `` remedies , '' are extremely dilute , often far beyond the point where a single molecule of the original active ( and possibly toxic ) ingredient is likely to remain .
Although the Dutch government funded CAM research between 1986 and 2003 , Alternative medicine formally ended funding in 2006 .
There are several socio-cultural reasons for the interest in these treatments centered on the low level of scientific literacy among the public at large and a concomitant increase in antiscientific attitudes and new age mysticism .
Related to this are vigorous marketing of extravagant claims by the alternative medical community combined with inadequate media scrutiny and attacks on critics .
Radon is a colorless and odorless gas generated by the breakdown of radioactive radium , which in turn is the decay product of uranium , found in the Earth 's crust .
The epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) regulates cell proliferation , apoptosis , angiogenesis , and tumor invasion .
Other genes that are often mutated or amplified are c-MET , NKX2-1 , LKB1 , PIK3CA , and BRAF .
Bronchoscopy or CT-guided biopsy is often used to sample the tumor for histopathology .
Lung cancer can also be an incidental finding , as a solitary pulmonary nodule on a chest radiograph or CT scan taken for an unrelated reason .
Small-cell lung carcinoma ( SCLC ) has traditionally been classified as ` limited stage ' ( confined to one half of the chest and within the scope of a single tolerable radiotherapy field ) or ` extensive stage ' ( more widespread disease ) .
Some studies suggest people who eat diets with a higher proportion of vegetables and fruit tend have a lower risk , but this is likely due to confounding .
If investigations confirm NSCLC , the stage must be reassessed to determine whether the disease is localized and amenable to surgery or whether Lung cancer has spread to the point where Lung cancer can not be cured surgically .
With adequate physical fitness , maintaining chemotherapy during Lung cancer palliation offers 1.5 to 3 months of prolongation of survival , symptomatic relief , and an improvement in quality of life , with better results seen with modern agents .
Founded in 1945 to replace the United Australia Party ( UAP ) and Liberal Party of Australia predecessors , the centre-right Liberal Party competes with the centre-left Labor Party .
Except for a few short periods , the Liberal Party and Liberal Party of Australia predecessors have operated in similar coalitions since the 1920s .
Party founder Robert Menzies , UAP Prime Minister from 1939 -- 41 and Liberal Prime Minister from 1949 -- 66 , and John Howard , Liberal Prime Minister from 1996 -- 2007 , were Australia 's two longest serving Prime Ministers .
At the state and territory level , the Liberal Party ( and Liberal Party of Australia affiliated Queensland Branch the Liberal National Party ) is in office in Australia 's four most populous states : Colin Barnett has been Premier of Western Australia since 2008 , Denis Napthine Premier of Victoria since 2013 , Barry O'Farrell Premier of New South Wales since 2011 , and Campbell Newman Premier of Queensland since 2012 .
Historically too , the party has supported a higher degree of economic protectionism and interventionism than Liberal Party of Australia has in recent decades , however from Liberal Party of Australia foundation the party has identified Liberal Party of Australia as anti-socialist .
One effect of this was the success of a breakaway party , the Australian Democrats , founded in 1977 by former Liberal minister Don Chipp and members of minor liberal parties ; other members of the left-leaning section of the middle-class became Labor supporters .
Socially , while liberty and freedom of enterprise form the basis of Liberal Party of Australia beliefs , elements of the party have wavered between what is termed `` small-l liberalism '' and social conservatism .
The stance of Lyons and other Labor rebels against the more radical proposals of the Labor movement to deal the Great Depression had attracted the support of prominent Australian conservatives .
His government included the first Aboriginal federal parliamentarian , Neville Bonner , and in 1976 , Parliament passed the Aboriginal Land Rights Act 1976 , which , while limited to the Northern Territory , affirmed `` inalienable '' freehold title to some traditional lands .
Under Dr John Hewson , the Liberal-National Opposition proposed a plan of economic reform to take to the 1993 Election , including the introduction of a Goods and Services Tax .
With John Howard as Prime Minister , Peter Costello as Treasurer and Alexander Downer as Foreign Minister , the Howard Government remained in power until their electoral defeat to Kevin Rudd in 2007 .
The 2007 federal election saw the defeat of the Howard federal government , and the Liberal Party was in opposition throughout Australia at the state and federal level ; the highest Liberal office-holder at the time was Brisbane Lord Mayor Campbell Newman .
In Queensland , the Liberal and National parties merged in 2008 to form the new Liberal National Party of Queensland ( registered as the Queensland Division of Liberal Party of Australia ) .
Lindisfarne is accessible , most times , at low-tide by crossing sand and mud flats which are covered with water at high tides .
For drivers , tide tables are prominently displayed at both ends of the causeway and where the Holy Island road leaves the A1 Great North Road at Beal .
The Historia Brittonum recounts how in the sixth century , Urien , prince of Rheged , besieged the Angles led by Theodoric at the island for three days and three nights .
Eadberht of Lindisfarne , the next bishop ( and Saint ) was buried in the place from which Cuthbert 's body was exhumed earlier the same year when Lindisfarne was abandoned in the late ninth century .
Crinoid columnals extracted from the quarried stone and threaded into necklaces or rosaries became known as St Cuthbert 's beads .
Lindisfarne is most times , at low-tide by crossing sand and mud flats which are covered with water at high tides .
The primary sense of literacy still represents the lifelong , intellectual process of gaining meaning from a critical interpretation of the written or printed text .
Key to all literacy is reading development , a progression of skills that begins with Literacy to understand spoken words and decode written words , and culminates in the deep understanding of text .
The United Nations Educational , Scientific and Cultural Organization ( UNESCO ) defines literacy as Literacy to identify , understand , interpret , create , communicate and compute , using printed and written materials associated with varying contexts .
Formal higher education in the arts and sciences in Wales , from the Dark Ages to the 18th century , was the preserve of the wealthy and the clergy .
Following the Roman occupation and the conquest by the English , education in Wales was at a very low ebb in the early modern period ; in particular , formal education was only available in English while the majority of the population spoke only Welsh .
The 1686 church law ( kyrkolagen ) of the Kingdom of Sweden ( which at the time included all of modern Sweden , Finland , and Estonia ) enforced literacy on the people , and by 1800 the ability to read was close to 100 % .
That said , the situation in England was far worse than in Scandinavia , France and Prussia : as late as 1841 , 33 % of all Englishmen and 44 % of Englishwomen signed marriage certificates with their mark as they were unable to write ( government-financed public education was not available in England until 1870 and , even then , on a limited basis ) .
In his research of literacy rates of males and females in New France , Trudel ( as cited in Magnusen , 1985 ) found that in 1663 , of 1,224 persons in New France who were of marriageable age , 59 % of grooms and 46 % of brides wrote their name , however , of the 3000 plus colony inhabitants , less than 40 % were native born .
From the early 1820s in Lower Canada , classical college curriculum , which was monopolized by the Church , was also subject to growing liberal and lay criticism , arguing Literacy was fit first and foremost to produce priests , when Lower Canadians needed to be able to compete effectively with foreign industry and commerce and with the immigrants who were monopolizing trade ( Curtis , 1985 ) ) .
Both churches shared an opposition to any educational plan that encouraged lay reading of the Bible , and spokesmen for both warned of the evil and demoralizing tendencies of unregulated reading in general .
Historical factors and socio-political conditions , however , have determined the extent to which universal social literacy has come to pass '' In 1871 only about half of French Canadian men in Canada self-reported that they were Literacy , whereas 90 percent of other Canadian men said they could read and write ( Greer , cited in Green , MacKinnon & Minns , 2005 ) , but information from the Canadian Families Project sample of the 1901 Census of Canada indicated that literacy rates for French Canadians and other Canadians increased , as measured by the ability of men between the ages of 16 and 65 to answer literacy questions .
Examination of 1976 census data , for example , found that 4,376,655 , or 28.4 % of Canadians 15 years of age and over reported a level of schooling of less than grade 9 and were thus deemed not functionally literate ( Thomas , 1983 , p. 52 ) .
The survey presented many important correlations , among which was a strong plausible link between literacy and a country 's economic potential .
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 's ( OECD ) Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies ( PIAAC ) is expected to produce new comparative skill profiles in late 2013 .
Full prose proficiency , as measured by Literacy to process complex and challenging material such as would be encountered in everyday life , is achieved by about 13 % of the general , 17 % of the white , and 2 % of the African American population .
In Ethiopia , a national literacy campaign introduced in 1978 increased Literacy to between 37 % ( unofficial ) and 63 % ( official ) by 1984 .
Literacy was only during a brief period in the Japanese occupation of the Philippines that the Japanese were able to teach their language in the Philippines and teach the children their written language .
Korotayev and coauthors have revealed a rather significant correlation between the level of literacy in the early 19th century and successful modernization and economic breakthroughs in the late 20th century , as ` Literacy people could be characterized by a greater innovative-activity level , which provides opportunities for modernization , development , and economic growth ' In Kerala , India , for example , female and child mortality rates declined dramatically in the 1960s , when girls schooled according to the education reforms after 1948 began to raise families .
This concluded that there were economic gains for the individuals , the companies Literacy worked for , and the Exchequer , as well as the economy and the country as a whole - for example , increased GDP .
For example , in the United States , the National Council of Teachers of English and the International Reading Association have added `` visually representing '' to the traditional list of competencies .
Since the 1990s , when the Internet came into wide use in the United States , some have asserted that the definition of literacy should include the ability to use tools such as web browsers , word processing programs , and text messages .
Given that a large part of the benefits of literacy can be obtained by having access to a Literacy person in the household , some recent literature in economics , starting with the work of Kaushik Basu and James Foster , distinguishes between a ` proximate illiterate ' and an ` isolated Literacy ' .
German and English both became written languages in abt 800 AD .
For this purpose a writing system is `` alphabetic '' if Literacy uses symbols to represent individual language sounds , though the degree of correspondence between letters and sounds varies between alphabetic languages .
Another approach is embedded phonics instruction , used more often in whole language reading instruction , in which novice readers learn about the individual letters in words on a just-in-time , just-in-place basis that is tailored to meet each student 's reading and writing learning needs .
The inability to read is prevalent around the world and discouragingly present even in American society .
Although 90 % of private and public education spending is on children between the ages of 6 and 19 , 90 % of brain growth occurs before age 6 .
In the United States , the release of the National Assessment of Literacy ( NAAL ) report in 2005 revealed that approximately 14 % of adults function at the lowest level of literacy ; 29 % of adults function at the basic functional literacy level and can not help their children with homework beyond the first few grades .
Literacy is fit first and foremost to produce priests , when Lower Canadians needed to be able to compete effectively with foreign industry and commerce and with the immigrants who were monopolizing trade ( Curtis , 1985 ) ) .
Local-loop unbundling ( LLU or LLUB ) is the regulatory process of allowing multiple telecommunications operators to use connections from the telephone exchange to the customer 's premises .
ILECs argue that LLU amounts to a regulatory taking , that Local-loop unbundling are forced to provide competitors with essential business inputs , that LLU stifles infrastructure-based competition and technical innovation because new entrants prefer to ` parasitise ' the incumbent 's network instead of building their own and that the regulatory interference required to make LLU work ( e.g. , to set the LLU access price ) is detrimental to the market .
New entrants , on the other hand , argue that since Local-loop unbundling can not economically duplicate the incumbent 's local loop , Local-loop unbundling can not actually provide certain services , such as ADSL without LLU , thus allowing the incumbent to monopolise the respective potentially competitive market ( s ) and stifle innovation .
Local-loop unbundling point out that alternative access technologies , such as wireless local loop , have proven uncompetitive and/or impractical , and that under current pricing models , the incumbent is in many cases , depending on the regulatory model , guaranteed a fair price for the use of Local-loop unbundling facilities , including an appropriate return on investment .
Local-loop unbundling took several years for the EU legislation to require unbundling and then in individual EU countries the process took further time to mature to become practical and economic rather than simply being a legal possibility .
In 1996 the United States Telecommunication Act ( in section 251 ) defined the unbundled access as `` The duty to provide , to any requesting telecommunications carrier for the provision of a telecommunications service , nondiscriminatory access to network elements on an unbundled basis at any technically feasible point on rates , terms , and conditions that are just , reasonable , and nondiscriminatory in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement and the requirements of this section and section 252 .
In rural areas , the state player , BSNL , is still the leading , and often the only supplier .
Regulatory action such as information disclosure , the separate accounting of Telecom New Zealand business operations , and enhanced Commerce Commission monitoring was announced .
The models recommended are Full Unbundling , Line Sharing and Bitstream Access .
Lysithea (moon) belongs to the Himalia group , five moons orbiting between 11 and 13 Gm from Jupiter at an inclination of about 28.3 ° .
Lysithea (moon) are continuously changing due to solar and planetary perturbations .
This shows Leda and the Swan making love with gusto , despite being on top of a triumphal car , being pulled along and surrounded by a considerable crowd .
However Leda and the Swan is known from many copies , of which the earliest are probably the Spiridon Leda , perhaps by a studio assistant and now in the Uffizi , and the one at Wilton House in England ( illustrated ) .
The Michelangelo composition , of about 1530 , shows Mannerist tendencies of elongation and twisted pose ( the figura serpentinata ) that were popular at the time .
`` Leda and the Swan '' is a sonnet by William Butler Yeats first published in the Dial in 1924 .
Leda and the Swan also suggests that this event leads to the murder of Agamemnon by Clytemnestra ( the latter being the daughter of Leda ) .
Camille Paglia , who called the poem `` the greatest poem of the twentieth century , '' and said `` all human beings , like Leda , are caught up moment by moment in the ` white rush ' of experience .
The description of the sexual action going on makes Leda and the Swan seem almost beautiful , as if Leda had given her consent .
The third voice , a girl who is pregnant and leaves her baby , mentions `` the great swan , with Leda and the Swan terrible look , / Coming at me , '' insinuating that the girl was raped .
The law concerned was Section 63 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 , brought in by the Labour Party government of 2005-2010 .
Lions Clubs International ( LCI ) is a secular service organization with over 45,500 clubs and more than 1,368,683 members in 205 countries around the world founded by Melvin Jones in 1917 .
Lions Clubs International focus on work for the blind and visually impaired began when Helen Keller addressed the International Convention at Cedar Point , Ohio , on 30 June 1925 and charged Lions to be Knights of the Blind .
Leo Clubs are a common school-based organization with members between the ages of 12 and 18 from the same school , these are commonly referred to as Alpha Leo Clubs .
There are more than 125 Campus Lions clubs in the world including nearly 2,500 members on college and university campuses in Australia , Brazil , China , Dominican Republic , Ecuador , El Salvador , England , Ethiopia , Germany , India , Indonesia , Italy , Mongolia , Nepal , Nigeria , Norway , Pakistan , Panama , Peru , Philippines , Russia , Sri Lanka , Thailand , Uganda , United States , Venezuela , Kenya , Zimbabwe , and Ghana-Lions KNUST Campus Lions Clubs empower their members to create meaningful change in their communities while developing leadership and professional skills .
Laches is an `` unreasonable delay pursuing a right or claim ... in a way that prejudices the opposing party '' When asserted in litigation , Laches (equity) is an equitable defense , or doctrine .
The person invoking laches is asserting that an opposing party has `` slept on its rights , '' and that , as a result of this delay , circumstances have changed such that Laches (equity) is no longer just to grant the plaintiff 's original claim .
`` When the defense of laches is clear on the face of the complaint , and where it is clear that the plaintiff can prove no set of facts to avoid the insuperable bar , a court may consider the defense on a motion to dismiss '' .
Laches (equity) is an `` unreasonable delay pursuing a right or claim ... in a way that prejudices the opposing party '' When asserted in litigation , it is an equitable defense , or doctrine .
Archimedean solid are distinct from the Platonic solids , which are composed of only one type of polygon meeting in identical vertices , and from the Johnson solids , whose regular polygonal faces do not meet in identical vertices .
Prisms and antiprisms , whose symmetry groups are the dihedral groups , are generally not considered to be Archimedean solid , despite meeting the above definition .
For example , a vertex configuration of ( 4,6,8 ) means that a square , hexagon , and octagon meet at a vertex ( with the order taken to be clockwise around the vertex ) .
Lyman Abbott ( December 18 , 1835 -- October 22 , 1922 ) was an American Congregationalist theologian , editor , and author .
Abbott soon abandoned the legal profession , however , and after studying theology with Lyman Abbott uncle , John Stevens Cabot Abbott , was ordained a minister of the Congregational Church in 1860 .
The many diverse and prominent author who contributed tributes `` demonstrated the scope and magnitude of Lyman Abbott 's influence within American religious and intellectual culture during Lyman Abbott long career '' .
The magazine `` was a prominent news source for Protestant ministers and laypeople all over the United States , demonstrating Abbott 's lasting influence '' .
Between their adoption in 1972 and June 2012 , 25 Leap second have been scheduled , all positive .
Muslim scholars , including al-Biruni in 1000 , subdivided the mean solar day into 24 equinoctial hours , each of which was subdivided sexagesimally , that is into the units of minute , second , third , fourth and fifth , creating the modern second as of the mean solar day in the process .
Soon afterwards Simon Newcomb and others discovered that Earth 's rotation period varied irregularly , so in 1952 the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defined the second as a fraction of the sidereal year .
Dr. P. Kenneth Seidelmann , editor of the Explanatory Supplement to the Astronomical Almanac , wrote a letter lamenting the lack of consistent public information about the proposal and adequate justification .
The plan for the vote was : In January 2012 , rather than decide yes or no per this plan , the ITU decided to postpone a decision on Leap second to the World Radio Conference in 2015 .
Leap second has been proposed that media clients using the Real-time Transport Protocol inhibit generation or use of NTP timestamps during the leap second and the second preceding Leap second .
R. Emmett Taylor ( 1889 -- 1956 ) said that Pacioli may have had nothing to do with the translated volume De divina proportione , and that it may just have been appended to Luca Pacioli work .
The British Columbia Geographical Names Information System ( BCGNIS ) comments that most residents of Vancouver might consider Lower Mainland to be only areas west of Mission and Abbotsford , while residents in the rest of the province consider Lower Mainland to be the whole region south of Whistler and west of Hope .
Due to Lower Mainland consistency of climate , flora and fauna , geology and land use , `` Lower Mainland '' is also the name of an ecoregion -- a biogeoclimatic region -- that comprises the eastern part of the Georgia Depression and extends from Powell River on the Sunshine Coast to Hope at the eastern end of the Fraser Valley .
Lucius Afranius (poet) had written many comedies , as the names and fragments of between twenty and thirty are still preserved .
The contract to build the tunnels was won by John Mowlem and Co. Construction of the tunnels started in February 1915 from a series of shafts .
London Post Office Railway was not until 3 August 1965 that the new station and office were opened by the Postmaster General , Anthony Wedgwood-Benn .
The Communication Workers Union claimed the actual figure was closer to three times more expensive but argued that this was the result of a deliberate policy of running the railway down and using London Post Office Railway at only one-third of London Post Office Railway capacity .
London Post Office Railway was used by the Post Office in London between 1863 and 1874 using individual wheeled capsules , operated by the London Pneumatic Despatch Company .
In 1910 London Post Office Railway opened in Munich , Germany between München Hauptbahnhof and the nearby Post office .
Lulach was King of Scots between 15 August 1057 and 17 March 1058 .
Lulach was the son of Gruoch of Scotland , from her first marriage to Gille Coemgáin , Mormaer of Moray , and thus the stepson of Macbeth ( Mac Bethad mac Findlaích ) .
Lulach is King of Scots between 15 August 1057 and 17 March 1058 .
Laparoscopic surgery , also called minimally invasive surgery ( MIS ) , Laparoscopic surgery , or Laparoscopic surgery , is a modern surgical technique in which operations in the abdomen are performed through small incisions ( usually 0.5 -- 1.5 cm ) as opposed to the larger incisions needed in laparotomy .
In 1902 , Georg Kelling , of Dresden , Germany , performed the first Laparoscopic surgery procedure in dogs and in 1910 , Hans Christian Jacobaeus , of Sweden , reported the first Laparoscopic surgery operation in humans .
This technological innovation provided the means to project a magnified view of the operative field onto a monitor and , at the same time , freed both the operating surgeon 's hands , thereby facilitating performance of complex Laparoscopic surgery procedures .
In 1975 , Tarasconi , from the Department of Ob-Gyn of the University of Passo Fundo Medical School ( Passo Fundo , RS , Brazil ) , started his experience with organ resection by laparoscopy ( Salpingectomy ) , first reported in the Third AAGL Meeting , Hyatt Regency Atlanta , November 1976 and later published in The Journal of Reproductive Medicine in 1981 .
The introduction in 1990 of a Laparoscopic surgery clip applier with twenty automatically advancing clips ( rather than a single load clip applier that would have to be taken out , reloaded and reintroduced for each clip application ) made general surgeons more comfortable with making the leap to Laparoscopic surgery cholecystectomies ( gall bladder removal ) .
In contrast , requiring only a single small incision , the `` Bonati system '' ( invented by Dr. Alfred Bonati ) , uses a single 5-function control , so that a saline solution and the vacuum pump operate together when the laser cutter is activated .
Since Laparoscopic surgery will still be working with scopes and other laparoscopic instruments , CO2 will have to be maintained in the patient 's abdomen , so a device known as a hand access port ( a sleeve with a seal that allows passage of the hand ) must be used .
Based on numerous prospective randomized controlled trials , the approach has proven to be beneficial in reducing post-operative morbidities such as wound infections and incisional hernias ( especially in morbidly obese patients ) , and is now deemed safe when applied to surgery for cancers such as cancer of colon .
The restricted vision , the difficulty in handling of the instruments ( new hand-eye coordination skills are needed ) , the lack of tactile perception and the limited working area are factors which add to the technical complexity of this surgical approach .
General lexicography focuses on the design , compilation , use and evaluation of general dictionaries , i.e. dictionaries that provide a description of the language in general use .
Nielsen ( 2008 ) suggests relevant aspects for lexicographers to consider when making dictionaries as they all affect the users ' impression and actual use of specific dictionaries .
` semi-bilingual ' or ` bilingualised ' dictionaries such as Hornby 's ( Oxford ) Advanced Learner 's Dictionary English-Chinese , which have been developed by translating existing monolingual dictionaries ( see Marello 1998 ) .
Libido , or colloquially Libido , refers to a person 's overall sexual drive or desire for sexual activity .
Biologically , levels of hormones such as testosterone are believed to affect Libido ; social factors , such as work and family , also have an impact ; as do internal psychological factors , like personality and stress .
Changes in the sexual desires of either partner in a sexual relationship , if sustained and unresolved , may cause problems in the relationship .
Sigmund Freud defined libido as the instinct energy or force , contained in what Freud called the id , the strictly unconscious structure of the psyche .
Building on the work of Karl Abraham , Freud developed the idea of a series of developmental phases in which the libido fixates on different erogenous zones -- first in the oral stage ( exemplified by an infant 's pleasure in nursing ) , then in the anal stage ( exemplified by a toddler 's pleasure in controlling his or her bowels ) , then in the phallic stage , through a latency stage in which the libido is dormant , to Libido reemergence at puberty in the genital stage .
Duality ( opposition ) that creates the energy ( or libido ) of the psyche , which Jung asserts expresses Libido only through symbols : `` Libido is the energy that manifests Libido in the life process and is perceived subjectively as striving and desire '' .
Emerging research is showing that hormonal contraception methods like `` the pill '' ( which rely on estrogen and progesterone together ) are causing low libido in females by elevating levels of sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) .
According to her , testosterone levels rise gradually from about the 24th day of a woman 's menstrual cycle until ovulation on about the 14th day of the next cycle , and during this period the woman 's desire for sex increases consistently .
Some specialists claim that women may experience low libido due to some hormonal abnormalities such as lack of luteinising hormone or androgenic hormones , although these theories are still controversial .
When Larissa ceased minting the federal coins Larissa shared with other Thessalian towns and adopted Larissa own coinage in the late 5th century BC , Larissa chose local types for Larissa coins .
Larissa , sometimes written Larisa on ancient coins and inscriptions , is near the site of the Homeric Argissa .
Larissa was in Larissa that Philip V of Macedon signed in 197 BC a treaty with the Romans after his defeat at Cynoscephalae , and Larissa was there also that Antiochus III , the Great , won a great victory , 192 BC .
The town was noted for Larissa trade fair in the 17th and 18th centuries , while the seat of the pasha of Thessaly was also transferred there in 1770 .
Larissa is the way toward one 's true and `` eternal '' home .
The Lead ( conventionally the male in a mixed-sex couple ) is responsible for choosing appropriate steps to suit the music ( if Lead and follow is an improvised dance ) , and leading the Follow by using subtle signals to complete the chosen steps smoothly and safely .
If the dance is a set ( pre-choreographed ) routine , Lead and follow is sometimes responsible for initiating each move , which ensures smooth coordination between the two dancers .
The degree to which the Lead controls the dance ( and , by implication , `` controls '' the Follower ) depends on the dance style and dancer sensitivity , the social context in which the dance exists , the experiences and personalities of each partner , and a range of other factors .
Partner dancing requires awareness and clear communication ; this is essential both for safety and for the overall success of the dance .
This helps Lead and follow be ready for cues both visually and physically : a lifted hand likely means an upcoming turn , for example , or a hand brought in front of the abdomen might signal a send-away .
In choreographed pieces and other situations where the follow is in a tandem position or shadow position , Lead and follow Lead and follow will use the same footwork .
If Lead and follow wants to bring the Follow close , Lead and follow is to apply tension and draw the hand in and down toward his or her own hip ; to send the Follow away , Lead and follow would guide the hand toward the Follow 's center and add compression , signaling the move away .
Contra Body Movement ( CBM ) : Describes the body movement when the opposite shoulder moves in the same direction as the opposite or moving leg .
Collision avoidance is one of the cases when the follow is required to `` backlead '' or at least to communicate about the danger to Lead and follow .
In open-position dances , such as Swing or Latin dances , maintaining eye contact with the partner is an important safety communication link .
Traditionally , the male dance partner is the Lead and the female dance partner is the Follow , though this is not always the case .
When Lead and follow goes forward , the Follow will naturally go backwards .
` Backleading ' is when a Follow is executing steps without waiting for , or contrary to , or interfering with Lead and follow lead .
Lead and follow is an improvised dance .
A related concept is the lemma ( or citation form ) , which is a particular form of a lexeme that is chosen by convention to represent a canonical form of Lexeme .
In the New Testament of the Christian Bible , Lord's Prayer appears in two forms : in the Gospel of Matthew as part of the Sermon on the Mount , and in the Gospel of Luke , which records Jesus being approached by `` one of his disciples '' with a request to teach them `` to pray as John taught his disciples '' .
The dialect of Syriac in which Lord's Prayer is written is not the dialect that would have been spoken by Jesus of Nazareth or his followers .
These believe that Jesus ' commands to feed the hungry and clothe the needy are the kingdom to which he was referring .
In this second interpretation , the petition in the Lord 's Prayer asks for this inner kingdom -- that is , attainment of personal salvation , moral and psychological , and reference to this condition as `` thy kingdom '' suggests an implicit contrast between Lord's Prayer and conditions dominated by selfish egoistic desires .
John Ortberg interprets this phrase as follows : `` Many people think our job is to get my afterlife destination taken care of , then tread water till we all get ejected and God comes back and torches this place .
Some modern Protestant scholars tend to reject this connection on the presumption that Eucharistic practice and the doctrine of transubstantiation both developed later than this writing .
Roman Catholics , Anglicans and Methodists are more likely to say `` trespasses ... those who trespass against us '' .
This difference between Luke 's and Matthew 's wording could be explained by the original form of Lord's Prayer having been in Aramaic .
Divergence between Matthew 's `` debts '' and Luke 's `` trespasses '' is relatively trivial compared to the impact of the second half of this statement .
The first known use of the doxology , in a less lengthy form ( `` for yours is the power and the glory forever '' ) , as a conclusion for the Lord 's Prayer ( in a version slightly different from that of Matthew ) is in the Didache , 8:2 .
Lord's Prayer has similarities with -- `` Yours , O LORD , is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty , for all that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours .
In Orthodox Christianity and Byzantine Rite Eastern Catholic Churches , a similar doxology is sung within the context of the Divine Liturgy .
Samples of scripture , including the Lord 's Prayer , were published in 52 oriental languages , most of them not previously found in such collections , translated by the brethren of the Serampore Mission and printed at the mission press there in 1818 .
A blessing said by some Jewish communities after the evening Shema includes a phrase quite similar to the opening of the Lord 's Prayer : `` Our God in heaven , hallow thy name , and establish thy kingdom forever , and rule over us for ever and ever .
Chumaceiro says that , because the idea of God leading a human into temptation contradicts the righteousness and love of God , `` Lead us not into temptation '' has no counterpart in the Jewish Bible/Christian Old Testament .
Well-known examples in the Old Testament are God 's test of Abraham , his `` moving '' ( the Hebrew word means basically `` to prick , as by weeds , thorns '' ) David to do ( numbering Israel ) what David later acknowledged as sin , and the Book of Job .
Love Parade was a place where some exhibited and enjoyed other people 's exhibitionist tendencies .
Love Parade is a place where some exhibited and enjoyed other people 's exhibitionist tendencies .
In A Moveable Feast , which was published after both Hemingway and Stein were dead and after a literary feud that lasted much of their life , Hemingway reveals that the phrase was actually originated by the garage owner who serviced Stein 's car .
In politics , the term left wing derives from the French Revolution , as radical Montagnard and Jacobin deputies from the Third Estate generally sat to the left of the president 's chair in parliament , a habit which began in the Estates General of 1789 .
The influential Communist Manifesto by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels , published in 1848 , asserted that all human history is the history of class struggle .
In the United States , many Left-wing politics , social liberals , progressives and trade unionists were influenced by the works of Thomas Paine , who introduced the concept of asset-based egalitarianism , which theorises that social equality is possible by a redistribution of resources .
The International Workingmen 's Association ( 1864 -- 76 ) , sometimes called the First International , brought together delegates from many different countries , with many different views about how to reach a classless and stateless society .
Following a split between supporters of Marx and Mikhail Bakunin , anarchists formed the International Workers ' Association .
Those who opposed the war , such as Vladimir Lenin and Rosa Luxemburg , saw themselves as further to the left .
In the United States after Reconstruction , the phrase `` the Left '' was used to describe those who supported trade unions , the civil rights movement and the anti-war movement .
Some distinguish Marx 's economic theories from his political philosophy , arguing that Marx 's approach to understanding the economy is independent of his advocacy of revolutionary socialism or his belief in the inevitability of proletarian revolution .
The dictatorship of the proletariat or workers ' state are terms used by Marxists to describe what they see as a temporary state between the capitalist and communist society .
Left-libertarians , Libertarian socialists and anarchists believe in a decentralized economy run by trade unions , workers ' councils , cooperatives , municipalities and communes , and oppose both government and private control of the economy , preferring local control , in which a nation of decentralized regions are united in a confederation .
Several Left-wing politics or socialist groupings have an overt environmental concern , whereas several green parties contain a strong socialist presence .
The left is however divided over how to effectively and equitably reduce carbon emissions - the center-left often advocates a reliance on market measures such as emissions trading or a carbon tax , whilst those further to Left-wing politics tend to support direct government regulation and intervention either alongside or instead of market mechanisms .
Through Left-wing politics unifying goal , nationalism strives for centralization , both in specific territories and in a ruling elite of individuals , while Left-wing politics prepares a population for capitalist exploitation .
Third-Worldism is a tendency within Left-wing politics thought that regards the division between First World developed countries and Third World developing countries as being of high political importance .
Religious beliefs , however , have also been associated with some Left-wing politics movements , such as the American abolitionist movement and the anti-capital punishment movement .
Early socialist thinkers such as Robert Owen , Charles Fourier , and the Comte de Saint-Simon based their theories of socialism upon Christian principles .
Other common Left-wing politics concerns such as pacifism , social justice , racial equality , human rights , and the rejection of excessive wealth can be found in the Bible .
U.S. `` New Left '' is associated with the Hippie movement , college campus mass protest movements and a broadening of focus from protesting class-based oppression to include issues such as gender , race , and sexual orientation .
Marxists such as Clara Zetkin and Alexandra Kollontai however , though supporters of radical social equality for women , opposed feminism on the grounds that it was a bourgeois ideology .
Selma James ) saw themselves as a part of the left that challenged what they perceive to be male-dominated and sexist structures within the left .
In the United Kingdom in the 1980s , the term hard left was applied to supporters of Tony Benn , such as the Campaign Group and the those involved in the London Labour Briefing newspaper , as well as Trotskyist groups such as the Militant tendency and Socialist Organiser .
The Los Angeles-class , sometimes called the LA-class or the 688-class , is a class of nuclear-powered fast attack submarines that forms the backbone of the U.S. Navy 's submarine force , with 62 submarines of Los Angeles class submarine .
Los Angeles class submarine submarines carry about 25 torpedo-tube-launched weapons and all boats of Los Angeles class submarine are capable of launching Tomahawk cruise missiles horizontally ( from the torpedo tubes ) .
The diesel engine in Los Angeles class submarine can be quickly started by compressed air during emergencies or to evacuate noxious ( non-volatile ) gases from the boat , although ` ventilation ' requires raising of a snorkel mast .
According to the story , told mainly by two turn-of-the-millennium historians , the Roman Livy and the Greek historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus ( who lived in Rome at the time of the Roman Emperor Caesar Augustus ) , Lucretia rape by the Etruscan king 's son and consequent suicide were the immediate cause of the revolution that overthrew the monarchy and established the Roman Republic .
`` This dreadful scene struck the Romans who were present with so much horror and compassion that they all cried out with one voice that they would rather die a thousand deaths in defence of their liberty than suffer such outrages to be committed by the tyrants '' .
Brutus `` urged them to act as men and Romans and take up arms against their insolent foes '' .
The gates of Rome were blockaded by the new revolutionary soldiers and more were sent to guard Collatia .
Mark Wahl of Critical Angle Inc. , Tim Howes , and Steve Kille started work in 1996 on a new version of LDAP , LDAPv3 , under the aegis of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF ) .
`` cn = John Doe '' is the entry 's RDN ( Relative Distinguished Name ) , and `` dc = example , dc = com '' is the DN of the parent entry , where `` dc '' denotes ` Domain Component ' .
This follows from the formal definitions - an entry is defined as a set of attributes , and an attribute is a set of values , and sets need not be ordered .
Modify DN ( move/rename entry ) takes the new RDN ( Relative Distinguished Name ) , optionally the new parent 's DN , and a flag that says whether to delete the value ( s ) in the entry that match the old RDN .
Unbind allows the server to gracefully close the connection and free resources that Lightweight Directory Access Protocol would otherwise keep for some time until discovering the client had abandoned the connection .
The contents of the entries in a subtree are governed by a directory schema , a set of definitions and constraints concerning the structure of the directory information tree ( DIT ) .
This requires a naming structure for LDAP entries so one can find a server holding a given DN or distinguished name , a concept defined in the X. 500 Directory and also used in LDAP .
Primarily two common styles of naming are used in both X. 500 2008 and LDAPv3 .
Then the volume is and the surface area is The symmetry group of a right n-sided antiprism with regular base and isosceles side faces is Dnd of order 4n , except in the case of a tetrahedron , which has the larger symmetry group Td of order 24 , which has three versions of D2d as subgroups , and the octahedron , which has the larger symmetry group Oh of order 48 , which has four versions of D3d as subgroups .
The symmetry group contains inversion if and only if n is odd .
The rotation group is Dn of order 2n , except in the case of a tetrahedron , which has the larger rotation group T of order 12 , which has three versions of D2 as subgroups , and the octahedron , which has the larger rotation group O of order 24 , which has four versions of D3 as subgroups .
Hispanic is a narrower term which only refers to persons of Spanish-speaking origin or ancestry , while `` Latino (demonym) '' is more frequently used to refer more generally to anyone of Latin American origin or ancestry , including Brazilians .
The term latino is used to refer to males only or a combination of males and females in a group , whereas the term Latina is used to refer to females only .
In Latino (demonym) modern usage , the idea that a part of the Americas has affinity with the Romance cultures as a whole can be traced back to the 1830s , in the writing of the French Saint-Simonian Michel Chevalier , who postulated that this part of the Americas was inhabited by people of a `` Latin race '' and that it could , therefore , ally Latino (demonym) with `` Latin Europe '' in a struggle with `` Teutonic Europe '' , `` Anglo-Saxon America '' and `` Slavic Europe '' .
The term Latino was officially adopted in 1997 by the United States Government in the ethnonym Hispanic or Latino , which replaced the single term Hispanic : `` Because regional usage of the terms differs -- Hispanic is commonly used in the eastern portion of the United States , whereas Latino is commonly used in the western portion '' .
The Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities , which proclaims Latino (demonym) the champion of Hispanic success in higher education , has member institutions in the U.S. , Puerto Rico , Latin America , Spain , and Portugal .
The AP Stylebook also distinguishes between the terms Hispanic and Latino .
Listed below are the 28 categories tabulated in the 2000 United States Census : Mexican , Puerto Rican , Cuban , Dominican Republic ; Central American : Costa Rican , Guatemalan , Honduran , Nicaraguan , Panamanian , Salvadoran , Other Central American ; South American : Argentinian , Bolivian , Chilean , Colombian , Ecuadorian , Paraguayan , Peruvian , Uruguayan , Venezuelan , Other South American ; Other Hispanic or Latino (demonym) : Spaniard , Spanish , Spanish American , All other Hispanic or Latino .
Sometimes `` Latino '' is used interchangeably with `` Latin '' , as Latino is also defined as a `` Latin inhabitant of the United States '' ; and sometimes Latino (demonym) is used interchangeably with `` Latin American '' .
`` When and why the Latino identity came about is a more involved story .
The term latino ( feminine latina ) in the Romance languages , such as Italian , Portuguese , and Spanish , literally translates as `` Latin '' .
The distinction between Latin America and Anglo-America is a convention based on the predominant languages in the Americas by which Romance-language and English-speaking cultures are distinguished .
Epidemics of diseases brought by the Europeans , such as smallpox and measles , wiped out a large portion of the indigenous population .
Under the leadership of a new generation of leaders , such as Simón Bolívar `` The Liberator '' , José de San Martín of Argentina , and other Libertadores in South America , the independence movement regained strength , and by 1825 , all Spanish America , except for Puerto Rico and Cuba , had gained independence from Spain .
In the same year in Mexico , a military officer , Agustín de Iturbide , led a coalition of conservatives and liberals who created a constitutional monarchy , with Iturbide as emperor .
Starting in the 1960s with the Latin American Free Trade Association and Central American Common Market , Latin American countries worked toward economic integration .
Large countries like Argentina called for reforms to lessen the disparity of wealth between the rich and the poor , which has been a long problem in Latin America that stunted economic growth .
Bureaucratic authoritarianism was practiced in Brazil after 1964 , in Argentina , and in Chile under Augusto Pinochet , in a response to harsh economic conditions .
In 1954 , when Jacobo Arbenz of Guatemala accepted the support of communists and attacked holdings of the United Fruit Company , the U.S. decided to assist Guatemalan counterrevolutionaries in overthrowing Arbenz .
President John F. Kennedy initiated the Alliance for Progress in 1961 , to establish economic cooperation between the U.S. and Latin America .
In recent years , several Latin American countries led by socialist or other left wing governments -- including Argentina and Venezuela -- have campaigned for ( and to some degree adopted ) policies contrary to the Washington Consensus set of policies .
Also critical of the policies as actually promoted by the International Monetary Fund have been some U.S. economists , such as Joseph Stiglitz and Dani Rodrik , who have challenged what are sometimes described as the `` fundamentalist '' policies of the International Monetary Fund and the US Treasury for what Stiglitz calls a `` one size fits all '' treatment of individual economies .
A development of this has been the creation of the eight-member ALBA alliance , or `` The Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America '' ( Spanish : Alianza Bolivariana para los Pueblos de Nuestra América ) by some of the countries already mentioned .
Spanish is spoken as first language by about 60 % of the population , Portuguese is spoken by about 34 % of the population and about 6 % of the population speak other languages such as Quechua , Mayan languages , Guaraní , Aymara , Nahuatl , English , French , Dutch and Italian .
Other European languages spoken in Latin America include : English , by some groups in Puerto Rico , as well as in nearby countries that may or may not be considered Latin American , like Belize and Guyana ; German , in southern Brazil , southern Chile portions of Argentina and Paraguay ; Italian , in Brazil , Argentina , and Uruguay ; and Welsh , in southern Argentina .
Creole languages of mainland Latin America , similarly , are derived from European languages and various African tongues .
Due to economic , social and security developments that are affecting the region in recent decades , the focus is now the change from net immigration to net emigration .
For the period 2000 -- 2005 , Chile , Costa Rica , Panama , and Venezuela were the only countries with global positive migration rates , in terms of their yearly averages .
Most educational systems in Latin America have implemented various types of administrative and institutional reforms that have enabled reach for places and communities that had no access to education services in the early 1990s .
Among people between the ages of 13 and 17 years , only 80 % are full-time students in the education system ; among them only 66 % advance to secondary school .
These percentages are lower among vulnerable population groups : only 75 % of the poorest youth between the ages of 13 and 17 years attend school .
Tertiary education has the lowest coverage , with only 70 % of people between the ages of 18 and 25 years outside of the education system .
The major victims of such homicides are young men , 69 percent of whom are between the ages of 15 and 19 years old .
Many analysts agree that the prison crisis will not be resolved until the gap between rich and poor is addressed .
More than 500,000 people have been killed by firearms in Brazil between 1979 and 2003 .
According to Goldman Sachs ' BRIC review of emerging economies , by 2050 the largest economies in the world will be as follows : China , United States , India , Brazil , and Mexico .
Inequality in Latin America has deep historical roots that have been difficult to eradicate since the differences between initial endowments and opportunities among social groups have constrained the poorest 's social mobility , thus making poverty to be transmitted from generation to generation , becoming a vicious cycle .
Places such as Cancún , Galápagos Islands , Machu Picchu , Chichen Itza , Cartagena de Indias , Cabo San Lucas , Acapulco , Rio de Janeiro , Salvador , Margarita Island , São Paulo , Salar de Uyuni , Punta del Este , Santo Domingo , Labadee , San Juan , La Habana , Panama City , Iguazu Falls , Puerto Vallarta , Poás Volcano National Park , Punta Cana , Viña del Mar , Mexico City , Quito , Bogotá , Santa Marta , San Andrés , Buenos Aires , Lima , Maceió , Florianópolis , Cuzco and Patagonia are popular among international visitors in Latin America .
Oral accounts of mythological and religious beliefs were also sometimes recorded after the arrival of European colonizers , as was the case with the Popol Vuh .
The 19th century was a period of `` foundational fictions '' ( in critic Doris Sommer 's words ) , novels in the Romantic or Naturalist traditions that attempted to establish a sense of national identity , and which often focussed on the indigenous question or the dichotomy of `` civilization or barbarism '' ( for which see , say , Domingo Sarmiento 's Facundo ( 1845 ) , Juan León Mera 's Cumandá ( 1879 ) , or Euclides da Cunha 's Os Sertões ( 1902 ) ) .
This was the first Latin American literary movement to influence literary culture outside of Latin America , and was also the first truly Latin American literature , in that national differences were no longer so much at issue .
However , what really put Latin American literature on the global map was no doubt the literary boom of the 1960s and 1970s , distinguished by daring and experimental novels ( such as Julio Cortázar 's Rayuela ( 1963 ) ) that were frequently published in Spain and quickly translated into English .
Arguably , the main contribution to music entered through folklore , where the true soul of the Latin American and Caribbean countries is expressed .
Musicians such as Yma Súmac , Chabuca Granda , Atahualpa Yupanqui , Violeta Parra , Víctor Jara , Facundo Cabral , Mercedes Sosa , Jorge Negrete , Luiz Gonzaga , Caetano Veloso , Susana Baca , Chavela Vargas , Simon Diaz , Julio Jaramillo , Toto la Momposina as well as musical ensembles such as Inti Illimani and Los Kjarkas are magnificent examples of the heights that this soul can reach .
Latin pop , including many forms of rock , is popular in Latin America today ( see Spanish language rock and roll ) .
Lynx (web browser) is the oldest web browser currently in general use and development , having started in 1992 and , 21 years later , still in use and development .
Browsing in Lynx (web browser) consists of highlighting the chosen link using cursor keys , or having all links on a page numbered and entering the chosen link 's number .
Unlike most web browsers , Lynx (web browser) does not support JavaScript and Adobe Flash , which some websites require to work correctly .
Lynx was originally designed for Unix-like operating systems , though Lynx (web browser) was ported to VMS soon after Lynx (web browser) public release and to other systems , including DOS , Microsoft Windows , Mac OS and OS/2 .
Extensive miniature woods of heaths are found in almost endless variety and covered throughout the greater part of the year with innumerable blossoms in which red is very prevalent .
The elephant ( though Natural history of Africa range has become restricted through the attacks of hunters ) is found both in the savannas and forest regions , the latter being otherwise poor in large game , though the special habitat of the chimpanzee and gorilla .
Baboons and mandrills , with few exceptions , are peculiar to Africa .
The single-humped camel , as a domestic animal , is especially characteristic of the northern deserts and steppes .
Many of the smaller birds , such as the sunbirds , bee-eaters , the parrots and kingfishers , as well as the larger plantain-eaters , are noted for the brilliance of their plumage .
The tsetse fly , whose bite is fatal to all domestic animals , is common in many districts of South and East Africa .
In calculus , l'Hôpital 's rule ( also sometimes spelled l'Hospital 's rule with silent `` s '' and identical pronunciation ) , also called Bernoulli 's rule , uses derivatives to help evaluate limits involving indeterminate forms .
The proof of l'Hôpital 's rule is simple in the case where and are continuously differentiable at the point and where a finite limit is found after the first round of differentiation .
polynomials , sine and cosine , exponential functions ) , L'Hôpital's rule is a special case worthy of attention .
L'Hôpital's rule suffices to consider the functions and .
of '' λεξικός '' ( lexikos ) , `` of or for words '' , from '' λέξις '' ( lexis ) , `` speech '' , `` word '' , ( in turn from '' λέγω '' lego `` to say '' , `` to speak '' ) + '' - λογία '' , ( - logia ) , `` the study of '' , a suffix derived from '' λόγος '' ( logos ) , amongst others meaning `` speech , oration , discourse , quote , study , calculation , reason '' , Lexicology turn also from '' λέγω '' .
Semantic relations between words are of many kinds , for example homonymy , antonymy , meronymy , and paronymy .
Lexical semantics is somewhat different from the semantics of larger units such as phrases , sentences , and complete texts ( or discourses ) , because Lexicology does not involve the same degree of compositional semantics complexities ; however , the notion of `` word '' can be extremely complex , particularly in agglutinative languages .
Followers of Chomskyan generative approach to grammar soon investigated two different types of semantics , which , unfortunately , clashed in an effusive debate , these were interpretative and generative semantics .
Lake Abitibi total area is 931 km ² , and net area 903 km ² .
The Lansing, Michigan Metropolitan Area , colloquially referred to as `` Mid-Michigan '' , is an important center for educational , cultural , governmental , commercial , and industrial functions .
Lansing, Michigan was the last of the county 's townships to be surveyed , and the land not offered for sale until October 1830 .
They told the residents of Lansing, Michigan , New York that this new `` city '' had an area of 65 blocks , contained a church and also a public and academic square .
The sleepy settlement of fewer than 20 people would remain dormant until the winter of 1847 when the state constitution required that Lansing, Michigan be moved from Detroit to a more central and safer location in the interior of the state ; many were concerned about Detroit 's proximity to British-controlled Canada , which had captured Detroit in the War of 1812 .
During the multi-day session to determine a new location for the state capital , many cities , including Ann Arbor , Marshall , and Jackson , lobbied hard to win this designation .
Lansing, Michigan began to grow steadily over the next two decades with the completion of the railroads through the city , a plank road , and the completion of the current capitol building in 1878 .
The Grand River , the largest river in Michigan , flows through downtown Lansing, Michigan ; and the Red Cedar River , a tributary of the Grand River , flows through the campus at Michigan State University .
Michigan State University Sailing Club and the Lansing, Michigan Sailing Club are located on Lake Lansing, Michigan , where sailing regattas are hosted throughout the summer .
The Eastside , located east of the Grand River and north of the Red Cedar River , is the most ethnically diverse side of Lansing , with foreign-born citizens making up more of Lansing, Michigan population than any other side in the city .
The Eastside 's commercial districts are located mainly along Michigan Avenue , and to a lesser extent along Kalamazoo Street .
Michigan State University , Thomas M. Cooley Law School , and Lansing, Michigan Community College are significant employers in the region .
Early availability of high-speed Internet in 1996 , as well as the MSU , Cooley Law School , and Lansing, Michigan Community College student body population , fostered an intellectual environment for information technology companies to incubate .
A combination retail and residential complex immediately south of Cooley Law School Stadium ( formerly Oldsmobile Park ) called `` The Stadium District '' , was completed in 2007 .
These markets include the Allen Street Farmer 's Market on the city 's eastside , the Westside Farmers ' Market , the Old Town Farmer 's Market , the South Lansing, Michigan Farmer 's Market , and the year-round historic Lansing, Michigan City Market located near downtown .
The historic Potter Park Zoo , located along the Red Cedar River in Lansing, Michigan , has more than 500 animals and numerous programs and events for children and families .
The Capital Area District Library has 13 branches within Ingham County , some of these include : The Main library downtown , the Foster Library on the east side , and the South Lansing, Michigan Library on the south side .
On November 27 , 2011 MSU beat Northwestern in their Big Ten Football finale to secure the top Big Ten record at 7-1 in conference play , and qualified to play in the first ever Big Ten Football Championship Game which was held December 3 , 2011 at Lucas Stadium in Indianapolis , Indiana against the Wisconsin Badgers .
In the 1980s and 1990s Lansing, Michigan was a major player in semi-pro football .
Lansing, Michigan is the last of the county 's townships to be surveyed , and the land not offered for sale until October 1830 .
Leukemia ( American English ) or leukaemia ( British English ) is a type of cancer of the blood or bone marrow characterized by an abnormal increase of immature white blood cells called `` blasts '' .
In turn , Leukemia is part of the even broader group of diseases affecting the blood , bone marrow , and lymphoid system , which are all known as hematological neoplasms .
The name comes from the Ancient Greek `` white '' , and `` blood '' Clinically and pathologically , leukemia is subdivided into a variety of large groups .
Finally , the red blood cell deficiency leads to anemia , which may cause dyspnea and .
Cohort and case-control studies have linked exposure to some petrochemicals and hair dyes to the development of some forms of leukemia .
In addition to these genetic issues , people with chromosomal abnormalities or certain other genetic conditions have a greater risk of leukemia .
According to a study conducted at the Center for Research in Epidemiology and Population Health in France , children born to mothers who use fertility drugs to induce ovulation are more than twice as likely to develop leukemia during their childhoods than other children .
Management of ALL focuses on control of bone marrow and systemic ( whole-body ) disease .
In a more advanced , uncontrolled state , when the patient can not tolerate imatinib , or if the patient wishes to attempt a permanent cure , then an allogeneic bone marrow transplantation may be performed .
Of the sixteen separate sites the body compared , leukemia was the 12th most common class of neoplastic disease , and the 11th most common cause of cancer-related death .
Hispanics , especially those under the age of 20 , are at the highest risk for leukemia , while whites , Native Americans , Asians , and Alaska Natives are at higher risk than blacks .
Clinical/translational research focuses on studying the disease in a defined and generally immediately patient-applicable way , such as testing a new drug in patients .
Acute leukemias normally require prompt , aggressive treatment , despite significant risks of pregnancy loss and birth defects , especially if chemotherapy is given during the developmentally sensitive first trimester .
Leukemia is part of the even broader group of diseases affecting the blood , bone marrow , and lymphoid system , which are all known as hematological neoplasms .
Separated from Europe by the Mediterranean Sea and from much of Asia by the Red Sea , Africa is joined to Asia at Geography of Africa northeast extremity by the Isthmus of Suez ( which is transected by the Suez Canal ) , 130 km wide .
The length of coast-line is 26000 km and the absence of deep indentations of the shore is shown by the fact that Europe , which covers only 10400000 km2 , has a coastline of 32000 km .
The main structural lines of the continent show both the east-to-west direction characteristic , at least in the eastern hemisphere , of the more northern parts of the world , and the north-to-south direction seen in the southern peninsulas .
Moderately elevated tablelands are thus the characteristic feature of Geography of Africa , though the surface of these is broken by higher peaks and ridges .
( So prevalent are these isolated peaks and ridges that a specialised term Inselberg-landschaft has been adopted in Germany to describe this kind of country , thought to be in great part the result of wind action .
As a general rule , the higher tablelands lie to the east and south , while a progressive diminution in altitude towards the west and north is observable .
The high southern and eastern plateaus , rarely falling below 600 m , have a mean elevation of about 1000 m .
The area between the east and west coast highlands , which north of 17 ° N is mainly desert , is divided into separate basins by other bands of high ground , one of which runs nearly centrally through North Africa in a line corresponding roughly with the curved axis of the continent as a whole .
North of the Congo basin , and separated from Geography of Africa by a broad undulation of the surface , is the basin of Lake Chad -- a flat-shored , shallow lake filled principally by the Chari coming from the southeast .
These four river basins occupy the greater part of the lower plateaus of North and West Africa -- the remainder consists of arid regions watered only by intermittent streams that do not reach the sea .
Of the remaining rivers of the Atlantic basin , the Orange , in the extreme south , brings the drainage from the Drakensberg on the opposite side of Geography of Africa , while the Kunene , Kwanza , Ogowe and Sanaga drain the west coastal highlands of the southern limb ; the Volta , Komoe , Bandama , Gambia and Senegal the highlands of the western limb .
The rest of the water of the Taukhe , known in Geography of Africa middle course as the Okavango , is lost in a system of swamps and saltpans that was formerly centred in Lake Ngami , now dried up .
Lastly , between the basins of the Atlantic and Indian Oceans , there is an area of inland drainage along the centre of the East African plateau , directed chiefly into the lakes in the great rift valley .
Madagascar , with an area of 229820 sqmi km2 , is , after Greenland , New Guinea and Borneo , the fourth largest island on the Earth .
These are the points that are farther north , south , east or west than any other location on Geography of Africa .
In the physical sciences and engineering , when one speaks of `` units of length '' , the word `` length '' is synonymous with `` distance '' .
In Louis Ginzberg book Students , Scholars and Saints , Ginzberg quotes the Vilna Gaon instructing , `` Do not regard the views of the Shulchan Aruch as binding if you think that they are not in agreement with those of the Talmud '' .
The conception that in religious matters anyone , however ignorant , can judge for Louis Ginzberg , is the direct denial of the old Jewish maxim , ` The ignorant can not be pious ' ( Avot 2:5 ) ... The majority vote of a Board of Directors of a synagogue is , after all , a negligible quantity when it is in opposition to the vote of historical Judaism with its myriad of Saints and thousands of Sages ... The sorting , distributing , selecting , harmonizing and completing can only be done by experienced hands .
Ginzberg 's initiative to base halakhic decisions on law committees and not laymen is the method the Conservative movement describes as its present one till today .
The Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , ratified on January 16 , 1920 , declared that `` the manufacture , sale , or transportation of intoxicating liquors within ... the United States ... for beverage purposes is hereby prohibited '' .
Left-arm unorthodox spin , or chinaman , is a type of bowling in the sport of cricket .
Some Left-arm unorthodox spin bowlers bowl a leg spinner 's `` googly '' ( or `` wrong ` un '' ) , which turns from right to left on the cricket pitch .
In cricketing parlance , the word `` chinaman '' is used to describe the stock delivery of a left-arm `` unorthodox '' spin bowler ( though some reserve Left-arm unorthodox spin for the googly delivery None The name has Left-arm unorthodox spin origins in a Test match played between the West Indies and England at Old Trafford , Manchester , in the year 1933 .
Louis was born on 25 April 1214 at Poissy , near Paris , the son of Prince Louis the Lion and Princess Blanche , and baptised in La Collégiale Notre-Dame church .
Louis IX of France contemporaries viewed Louis IX of France reign as co-rule between the king and Louis IX of France mother , though historians generally view the year 1234 as the year in which Louis began ruling personally , with Louis IX of France mother assuming a more advisory role .
Louis went on two crusades , in Louis IX of France mid-30s in 1248 ( Seventh Crusade ) and then again in Louis IX of France mid-50s in 1270 ( Eighth Crusade ) .
However , Güyük died before the emissary arrived at Louis IX of France court , and nothing concrete occurred .
In a parliament held at Paris , 24 March 1267 , Louis IX of France and Louis IX of France three sons took the cross .
The crusaders , among whom was Prince Edward of England , landed at Carthage 17 July 1270 , but the disease broke out in the camp , and on 25 August , Louis Louis IX of France was carried off by the scourge .
Louis IX of France reputation for saintliness and fairness was already well established while Louis IX of France was alive , and on many occasions Louis IX of France was chosen as an arbiter in quarrels among the rulers of Europe .
In 1258 , Louis and James I of Aragon signed the Treaty of Corbeil , under which Louis renounced Louis IX of France feudal overlordship over the County of Barcelona , which was held by the King of Aragon .
The Sainte Chapelle , a perfect example of the Rayonnant style of Gothic architecture , was erected as a shrine for the Crown of Thorns and a fragment of the True Cross , precious relics of the Passion of Jesus .
Where the profits of the Jewish and Lombard money-lenders had been exorbitant , and the original borrowers could not be found , Louis exacted from the usurers a contribution towards the crusade which Pope Gregory was then trying to launch .
In addition to Louis ' legislation against Jews and usury , Louis IX of France expanded the scope of the Inquisition in France .
The rate of these confiscations reached its highest levels in the years before Louis IX of France first crusade , and slowed upon Louis IX of France return to France in 1254 .
`` king of the Franks '' ( until Louis ' grand-father 's reign , Philip II whose seal reads Rex Franciae , i.e. Louis IX of France ) , and the kings of France were also known by the title `` most Christian king '' ( Rex Christianissimus ) .
The Cathedral Saint-Louis in Versailles ; the Basilica of St. Louis , King of France and the Cathedral Basilica of St. Louis , both in St. Louis , Missouri ; and the St. Louis Cathedral , New Orleans were also named for the king .
Linear B , found mainly in the palace archives at Knossos , Cydonia , Pylos , Thebes and Mycenae , disappeared with the fall of Mycenaean civilization .
In all the thousands of clay tablets , a relatively small number of different `` hands '' have been detected : 45 in Pylos ( west coast of the Peloponnese , in southern Greece ) and 66 in Knossos ( Crete ) .
The grid developed during decipherment by Michael Ventris and John Chadwick of phonetic values for syllabic signs is shown below .
The transcription of the syllable ( Linear B may not have been pronounced that way ) is listed next to the sign along with Bennett 's identifying number for the sign preceded by an asterisk ( as was Ventris ' and Chadwick 's convention ) .
Possible exceptions , Chadwick goes on to explain , include the two diphthongs , ( ai ) and ( au ) , as in Ai-ku-pi-ti-jo for Aiguptios and Au-ke-wa for Augewās .
Diphthongs are otherwise treated as two monosyllables : a-ro-u-ra for ` arourans ' ( accusative plural of ἄρουραι , `` tamarisk trees '' ) , of the types CV and V. Lengths of vowels and accents are not marked .
The vowels so introduced have been called `` empty '' , `` null '' , `` extra '' , `` dead '' and other terms by various writers as Linear B represent no sound .
This view stood until Carl Blegen excavated the site of ancient Pylos in 1939 and uncovered tablets inscribed in Linear B .
In these articles Evans distinguished between `` pictographic writing '' and `` a linear system of writing '' .
He did not explicitly define these terms , causing some confusion among subsequent writers concerning what he meant , but in 1898 he wrote `` These linear forms indeed consist of simple geometrical figures which unlike the more complicated pictorial class were little susceptible to modification , '' and `` That the linear or quasi-alphabetic signs ... were in the main ultimately derived from the rudely scratched line pictures belonging to the infancy of art can hardly be doubted '' .
Linear B has characters that are `` of a free , upright , European character '' and `` seem to have been for the most part syllabic '' .
The Knossos tablets were of Class B , so that Evans could only have perceived Class A in tablets from elsewhere , and so recently that he needed permission to include the examples .
The unpublished second volume consisted of notes by Evans and plates and fonts created by Clarendon Press .
The second volume came out in 1952 with Evans cited as author and Myres as editor , just before the discovery that Linear B writes an early form of Greek .
This was a reasonable assumption , since Linear B had far too many characters to be considered alphabetic and far too few characters to be logographic ; therefore , each character should represent a syllable .
Bennett 's book The Pylos Tablets became a crucial resource for Michael Ventris , who later described Linear B as `` a wonderful piece of work '' Michael Ventris and John Chadwick performed the bulk of their decipherment of Linear B between 1951 and 1953 .
Based on Kober 's work , and after making some assumptions , Ventris was able to deduce the pronunciation of the syllables .
John Chadwick , a student of historical Greek , helped Ventris decipher the text and discover the vocabulary and grammar of Mycenaean Greek .
The first edition ( 1938 ) was edited by Prosper Montagné , with prefaces by Georges Auguste Escoffier and Philéas Gilbert .
Louis XIV of France ( 5 September 1638 -- 1 September 1715 ) , known as Louis the Great ( Louis le Grand ) or the Sun King ( le Roi-Soleil ) , was a monarch of the House of Bourbon who ruled as King of Louis XIV of France and Navarre .
Louis XIV of France sought to eliminate the remnants of feudalism persisting in parts of France and , by compelling many members of the nobility to inhabit Louis XIV of France lavish Palace of Versailles , succeeded in pacifying the aristocracy , many members of which had participated in the Fronde rebellion during Louis 's minority .
Praising Louis XIV of France ability to choose and encourage men of talent , the historian Chateaubriand noted that `` it is the voice of genius of all kinds which sounds from the tomb of Louis '' .
Although Fouquet 's financial indiscretions were not really very different from Mazarin before Louis XIV of France or Colbert after Louis XIV of France , Louis XIV of France ambition was worrying to Louis .
Louis XIV of France had , for example , built an opulent château at Vaux-le-Vicomte where Louis XIV of France entertained Louis and Louis XIV of France court ostentatiously , as if Louis XIV of France were wealthier than the king Louis XIV of France .
Gone were the days when generals protracted war at the frontiers while bickering over precedence and ignoring orders from the capital and the larger politico-diplomatic picture .
The old military aristocracy ( the Noblesse d'épée , or `` nobility of the sword '' ) ceased to have a monopoly over senior military positions and rank .
Louvois in particular pledged Louis XIV of France to modernizing the army and re-organizing it into a professional , disciplined and well-trained force .
Louis XIV of France was devoted to the soldiers ' material well-being and morale , and even tried to direct campaigns .
Additionally , in the colonies , only Roman Catholics could own slaves , and these had to be baptised .
Several reasons have been suggested for the creation of the extravagant and stately palace , as well as the relocation of the monarchy 's seat .
However , Louis XIV of France sponsorship of many public works in Paris , such as the establishment of a police and street-lighting , lend little credence to this theory .
Then , in 1682 , after the reception of the embassy of Mohammed Tenim in France , Moulay Ismail , Sultan of Morocco , allowed French consular and commercial establishments in Louis XIV of France country .
However , the death of Narai , King of Ayutthaya , the execution of Louis XIV of France pro-French minister Constantine Phaulkon and the Siege of Bangkok in 1688 ended this era of French influence .
Responding to petitions , Louis initially excluded Protestants from office , constrained the meeting of synods , closed churches outside Edict-stipulated areas , banned Protestant outdoor preachers , and prohibited domestic Protestant migration .
Although this was within Louis XIV of France legal rights , the dragonnades inflicted severe financial strain on Protestants and atrocious abuse .
Louis XIV of France may have also have acted to upstage Emperor Leopold I and regain international prestige after the latter defeated the Turks without Louis 's help .
The War of the League of Augsburg , which lasted from 1688 to 1697 , initiated a period of decline in Louis 's political and diplomatic fortunes .
However , the Bavarian claimant to replace Maximilian Henry , Prince Joseph Clemens of Bavaria , was at that time not more than 17 years ' old and not even ordained .
Before this happened , Louis expected William 's expedition to England to absorb Louis XIV of France energies and those of Louis XIV of France allies , so Louis XIV of France dispatched troops to the Rhineland after the expiry of Louis XIV of France ultimatum to the German princes requiring confirmation of the Truce of Ratisbon and acceptance of Louis XIV of France demands about the succession crises .
Louis personally supervised the captures of Mons in 1691 and Namur in 1692 .
While naval stalemate ensued after the French victory at the Battle of Beachy Head in 1690 and the Allied victory at Barfleur-La Hougue in 1692 , the Battle of Torroella in 1694 exposed Catalonia to French invasion , culminating in the capture of Barcelona .
Louis tried to break up the alliance against Louis XIV of France by dealing with individual opponents , but this did not achieve its aim until 1696 , when the Savoyards agreed to the Treaty of Turin and switched sides .
This agreement divided Spain 's Italian territories between Louis 's son le Grand Dauphin and the Archduke Charles , with the rest of the empire awarded to Joseph Ferdinand .
Therefore , in 1700 , Louis and William III concluded a fresh partitioning agreement , the Treaty of London .
The clear demonstration of French military superiority for many decades before this time , the pro-French faction at the court of Spain , and even Pope Innocent XII convinced him that France was more likely to preserve Louis XIV of France empire intact .
Moreover , Louis 's foreign minister , Jean-Baptiste Colbert , marquis de Torcy , pointed out that war with the Emperor would almost certainly ensue whether Louis accepted the partition treaties or Charles II 's will .
Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy met again at the Battle of Oudenarde , which enabled them to mount an invasion of Louis XIV of France .
In particular , two massive famines struck France between 1693 and 1710 that killed over two million people .
As a result of the fresh British perspective on the European balance of power , Anglo-French talks began that culminated in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht between Louis XIV of France , Spain , Britain , and the Dutch Republic .
Louis even acquired additional territories , such as the Principality of Orange and the Ubaye Valley , which covered transalpine passes into Italy .
Rather , they focus on military and diplomatic successes such as how Louis XIV of France placed a French prince on the Spanish throne .
The memoirist Saint-Simon , who claimed that Louis slighted Louis XIV of France , criticised Louis XIV of France thus : `` There was nothing Louis XIV of France liked so much as flattery , or , to put it more plainly , adulation ; the coarser and clumsier it was , the more Louis XIV of France relished it '' .
In the acquisition of Alsace and half of Flanders , and of all of Franche-Comté , what Louis XIV of France really liked was the name Louis XIV of France made for himself '' .
In Louis XIV of France work , Rigaud proclaims Louis 's exalted royal status through Louis XIV of France elegant stance and haughty expression , the royal regalia and throne , rich ceremonial fleur-de-lys robes , as well as the upright column in the background , which , together with the draperies , serves to frame this image of majesty .
Louis played an Egyptian in Le Mariage forcé in 1664 , a Moorish gentleman in Le Sicilien in 1667 , and both Neptune and Apollo in Les Amants magnifiques in 1670 .
Despite the image of a healthy and virile king that Louis sought to project , evidence exists to suggest that Louis 's health was not all that good .
Louis was a pious and devout king who saw Louis XIV of France as the head and protector of the Gallican Church , Louis made Louis XIV of France devotions daily regardless of where Louis XIV of France was , following the liturgical calendar regularly .
Towards the middle and the end of Louis XIV of France reign , the centre for the King 's religious observances was usually the Chapelle Royale at Versailles .
In 1862 Ludwig Ritter von Köchel published the Köchel catalogue , a chronological and thematic register of the works of Mozart .
J. Lyons and Co. , one of the UK 's leading catering and food manufacturing companies in the first half of the 20th century , sent two of LEO (computer) senior managers , Oliver Standingford and Raymond Thompson , to the USA in 1947 to look at new business methods developed during the Second World War .
This was initially run as a test program on 5 September 1951 , and LEO (computer) took over Bakery Valuations calculations completely on 29 November 1951 .
To be useful for business applications , LEO (computer) had to be able to handle a number of data streams , input and output , simultaneously .
LEO (computer) is part of English Electric Company ( EELM ) and then International Computers Limited ( ICL ) and ultimately Fujitsu .
In 610 Laurence received letters from Pope Boniface IV , addressed to Laurence of Canterbury as archbishop and Augustine 's successor .
In 613 Laurence consecrated the monastery church built by Augustine in Canterbury , and dedicated it to saints Peter and Paul ; it was later re-consecrated as St Augustine 's Abbey , Canterbury .
Laurence also wrote to the bishops in the lands held by the Scots and by the Britons , urging them to hold Easter on the day that the Roman church celebrated it , instead of their traditional date , part of the Easter controversy .
`` Leaf by Niggle '' is a short story written by J. R. R. Tolkien in 1938 -- 39 and first published in the Dublin Review in January 1945 .
This is notable because the book , consisting of a seminal essay called `` On Fairy-Stories '' and `` Leaf by Niggle , '' offers the underlying philosophy ( Creation and Sub-Creation , see below ) of much of Tolkien 's fantastical writings .
Also , Leaf by Niggle next door neighbour , a gardener named Parish , is the sort of neighbour who always drops by whining about the help he needs with this and that .
But he discovers that the new country he is sent to is in fact the country of the Tree and Forest of his great painting , now long abandoned and all but destroyed ( except for the one perfect leaf of the title which is placed in the local museum ) in the home to which he can not return -- but the Tree here and now in this place is the true realization of his vision , not the flawed and incomplete form of his painting .
A religious reading of Leaf by Niggle could lead to the conclusion that the allegory of `` Leaf by Niggle '' is life , death , purgatory and paradise .
Another Vala , Aulë , creates the Dwarf race as an act of subcreation that honoured Eru Ilúvatar ( The equivalent of God in Tolkien 's writings ) , and which Eru accepted and made real , just as Leaf by Niggle Tree was made real .
Leaf by Niggle yearnings after truth and beauty ( God 's creations ) are echoed in his great painting ; after death , Leaf by Niggle is rewarded with the realization ( the making-real ) of his yearning .
Leaf by Niggle is a short story written by J. R. R. Tolkien in 1938 -- 39 and first published in the Dublin Review in January 1945 .
Leet ( or `` 1337 '' ) , also known as eleet or leetspeak , is an alternative alphabet for the English language that is used primarily on the Internet .
The meaning of this suffix is parallel with the English - er and - r suffixes ( seen in hacker and lesser ) , in that Leet derives agent nouns from a verb stem .
The loose grammar , just like loose spelling , encodes some level of emphasis , ironic or otherwise .
In particular , speakers of Leet are fond of verbing nouns , turning verbs into nouns ( and back again ) as forms of emphasis , e.g.
As such , while it may be referred to as a `` cipher '' , a `` dialect '' , or a `` language '' , Leet does not fit squarely into any of these categories .
Suxxor ( pronounced suck-zor ) is a derogatory term which originated in warez culture and is currently used in multi-user environments such as multiplayer video games and instant messaging ; it , like haxor , is one of the early Leet words to use the - xor suffix .
Within Leet , the term n00b , and derivations thereof , is used extensively .
Lois 's appearance has varied over the years , depending either on contemporary fashion , or media adaptations .
In the earlier comics , her parents were farmers in a town called Pittsdale ; the modern comics , however , depict Sam as a retired soldier , and Lois as a former `` Army brat '' , born at Ramstein Air Base with Lois having been trained by her father in areas such as hand-to-hand combat and the use of firearms .
In Action Comics 484 ( June 1978 ) , a flashback story reveals Earth-Two 's Lois became infatuated with Clark Kent after the latter lost his memory of his superheroic identity ( thanks to a spell cast by the old Justice Society of America enemy , the Wizard ) , with the result of Clark acting more aggressive and extroverted .
However , during the honeymoon , Lois discovered that Clark was indeed Superman , and after recruiting the aid of the Wizard , restored Clark 's memory .
Lois Lane starred in a series of stories in Superman Family 195 -- During the Crisis on Infinite Earths miniseries , the Earth-Two Lois Lane was seemingly seen for the final time , as Lois , the Earth-Two Superman , and the Superboy of Earth Prime are taken by Earth-Three 's Alexander Luthor , Jr. into a paradise like dimension at the end of the story .
To wit , various stories from this era show Superman using various means to protect his secret identity from Lois , including his Superman robots or Batman disguising himself as Clark/Superman .
He and Lois would have several on and off experiences together before the relationship completely disintegrated , due to Delgado accepting help from a Lexcorp subsidiary ARL and Lois ' attraction to Superman with whom Delgado felt he had to compete .
In , Superman begins a journey through America to reconnect with the American people , and Lois , though confused at first , supports his choice .
During the story Superman takes Lois to the Fortress of Solitude and presents Lois with her birthday present , a superhero costume that he made himself with his own DNA , that had the ability to give Lois superpowers for twenty-four hours .
Tracking recent kidnapped heroes to a secret base , Lois is introduced to the Kents , who provide a safe house for various heroes after Lana Lang smuggled them out of the facility , and later discovers that the true mastermind behind the conspiracy is Jimmy Olsen , mutated into a Kryptonian through genetic experiments carried out based on DNA samples found in Kal-El 's crashed and abandoned ship .
For her performance she was nominated for Broadway 's 1966 Tony Award as Best Supporting or Featured Actress ( Musical ) .
Superman and Lois did not share their first kiss until the final moments of `` Legacy '' , this animated series last episode ( although Lois had kissed an alternate version of Superman in `` Brave New Metropolis '' ) .
Lois Lane were rescued by Krypto when Superman attacked their protest march , Batman and Krypto had to fight Superman until the effects of the Red Kryptonite wore off .
Lois and Jimmy were present when Batman and Superman found the real Lex Luthor since the one that was arrested before was one of Lex Luthor 's robotic duplicates .
Lois remarks that after all the trouble she and Jimmy go through , Clark end up writing the story that revealed Lex Luthor 's part in what Superman did under the Red Kryptonite 's control .
Then she is seen kneeling next to Superman holding his hand on the street of Metropolis , and asking the Justice League for help , after Superman is nearly shot by Metallo with a Kryptonite bullet .
This is the first television or film series that showed Lois and Clark 's romance fully realized .
Phyllis Coates ( Superman and the Mole Men , Adventures of Superman ) and Teri Hatcher do not participate , nor does Kate Bosworth ( whose appearance in Superman Returns occurs the year after the release of this DVD box set ) .
Linker (computing) is a computer program that takes one or more object files generated by a compiler and combines them into a single executable program .
As the compiler has no information on the layout of objects in the final output , Linker (computing) can not take advantage of shorter or more efficient instructions that place a requirement on the address of another object .
For the sake of comparison , Gauss used the notation , according to whether a is a residue or a non-residue modulo p.
In particular , the product of two numbers that are both quadratic residues or quadratic non-residues modulo p is a residue , whereas the product of a residue with a non-residue is a non-residue .
\ endcases \ left ( \ frac2p \ right ) = ( -1 ) -- \ tfracp -- 2-18 = \ begincases \ ;\ ;\ ,1 \ mbox if p \ equiv 1 \ mbox or 7 \ pmod8 \ \ -1 \ mbox if p \ equiv 3 \ mbox or 5 \ pmod8 .
On 12 September 1942 , , carrying some 2,732 crew , passengers , soldiers and POWs , was struck and sunk by a torpedo from Kriegsmarine submarine off the coast of west Africa .
At 22:00 on 12 September 1942 , U-156 was patrolling off the coast of West Africa midway between Liberia and Ascension Island .
Several were shot when a group of POWs rushed a lifeboat station and a large number were bayoneted to death in attempts to prevent them boarding the few lifeboats available .
Survivor Jim McLoughlin states in One Common Enemy that Hartenstein asked him if he was in the Royal Navy , which he was , and then asked why a passenger ship was armed , stating , `` If it was n't armed , I would not have attacked '' .
Ships armed with guns ( which most merchantmen and troop transports were ) fell outside the protection from attack without warning and the requirement to place survivors `` in a place of safety '' ( for which lifeboats did not qualify ) ; therefore , Laconia incident made no difference if she was a troop ship or a passenger ship , the Laconia was a legitimate target .
The `` poorly worded message '' implied that the Laconia had only been sunk that day , made no mention that the Germans were involved in a rescue attempt under a cease-fire or that neutral French ships were also on route .
At 11:30 on 15 September , she was joined by U-506 , and a few hours later by both U-507 , and the Italian submarine Cappellini .
On the first three the depth charges and bombs failed to release , on the fourth he dropped two bombs : The crew of the Liberator were later awarded medals for the alleged sinking of U-156 when they had in fact only sunk two lifeboats .
Five B-25s from Ascension 's permanent squadron and Hardin 's B-24 continued to search for submarines from dawn till dusk .
On 17 September , one B-25 sighted Laconia 's lifeboats and informed the Empire Haven of their position .
On arrival , Colonel Baldwin , on behalf of all the British survivors , presented Captain Graziani with a letter that read as follows : The submarine Cappellini had been unable to find the French warships so radioed for instructions and awaited a response .
One of the survivors , Gladys Foster , wrote a detailed description of the sinking , Laconia incident and then subsequent two-month internment in Africa .
The lifeboat , filled to capacity with men , women and children , was leaking badly and rapidly filling with water ; at the same time Laconia incident was crashing against the ship 's side .
Approval voting was described in 1976 by Guy Ottewell and also by Robert J. Weber , who coined the term `` approval voting '' .
Next to each name is a checkbox , or another similar way to mark ` Yes ' or ` No ' for that candidate .
This `` check yes or no '' approach means Approval voting is one of the simplest voting systems to use .
If a voter knows exactly how all others will vote , and if their preferences for different tie results are optimistic , pessimistic , or utility-maximising , then there are no insincere approval strategies ; that is , in order to get a better result , there is never a need to approve a less-favored candidate while disapproving a more-favored one .
Bullet Voting occurs when a voter approves only candidate ` a ' instead of both ` a ' and ` b ' for the reason that voting for ` b ' can cause ` a ' to lose .
When there are three or more candidates , every voter has more than one sincere approval vote that distinguishes between the candidates .
When all voters have dichotomous preferences and vote the sincere , strategy-proof vote , Approval voting is guaranteed to elect the Condorcet winner , if one exists .
All of the candidates are divided into two groups such that the voter is indifferent between any two candidates in the same group and any candidate in the top-level group is preferred to any candidate in the bottom-level group .
A rational voter model described by Myerson and Weber specifies an Approval voting strategy that votes for those candidates that have a positive prospective rating .
For example , if all voters are rational and cast a strategically optimal vote based on a common knowledge of how all the other voters vote except for small-probability , statistically independent errors in recording the votes , then the winner will be the Condorcet winner , if one exists .
In the example election described here , assume that the voters in each faction share the following von Neumann-Morgenstern utilities , fitted to the interval between 0 and 100 .
This happens because the expected winner , Memphis , was the Condorcet loser and was also ranked last by any voter that did not rank Approval voting first .
Among these are proportional approval voting for determining a proportional assembly , and Minimax Approval for determining a consensus assembly where the least satisfied voter is satisfied the most .
Unless the second or fourth format is used , fraudulently adding votes to an approval voting ballot will not invalidate the ballot , ( that is , Approval voting will not make Approval voting appear inconsistent ) .
Lev Sergeyevich Termen ; ) ( -- 3 November 1993 ( Léon Theremin in America ) was a Russian and Soviet inventor .
In the seventh class of Léon Theremin high school before an audience of students and parents Léon Theremin demonstrated various optical effects using electricity .
Léon Theremin cousin , Kirill Fedorovich Nesturkh , then a young physicist , and a singer named Wagz invited Léon Theremin to attend the defense of the dissertation of professor Abram Fedorovich Ioffe .
On 9 May 1913 Theremin and Léon Theremin cousin attended Ioffe 's dissertation defense .
Léon Theremin named it the `` etherphone '' ; , to be known as the Терменвокс ( Termenvox ) in the Soviet Union , as the Thereminvox in Germany , and later as the `` theremin '' in the United States .
After being sent on a lengthy tour of Europe starting 1927 -- including London , Paris and towns in Germany -- during which Léon Theremin demonstrated Léon Theremin invention to full audiences , Theremin found Léon Theremin way to the United States , arriving on 30 December 1927 with Léon Theremin first wife Katia .
These included the Rhythmicon , commissioned by the American composer and theorist Henry Cowell .
Beryl Campbell , one of Theremin 's dancers , said Léon Theremin wife Lavinia `` called to say that Léon Theremin had been kidnapped from Léon Theremin studio '' and that `` some Russians had come in '' and that she felt that Léon Theremin was going to be spirited out of the country .
Lavrentiy Beria , the head of the secret police organization NKVD ( the predecessor of the KGB ) , used the Buran device to spy on the British , French and US embassies in Moscow .
The most common representation is where is the predicted signal value , the previous observed values , and the predictor coefficients .
Predictions such as are routinely used within Kalman filters and smoothers to estimate current and past signal values , respectively .
In Greek mythology , Leto ( Greek : , Lātṓ in Dorian Greek , etymology and meaning disputed ) is a daughter of the Titans Coeus and Phoebe and the sister of Asteria .
In the Olympian scheme , Zeus is the father of her twins , Apollo and Artemis , the Letoides , which Leto conceived after her hidden beauty accidentally caught the eyes of Zeus .
This is her one active mythic role : once Apollo and Artemis are grown , Leto withdraws , to remain a dim and benevolent matronly figure upon Olympus , her part already played .
When Hera , the most conservative of goddesses -- for she had the most to lose in changes to the order of nature -- discovered that Leto was pregnant and that Zeus was the father , she realized that the offspring would cement the new order.Wolves are not easily delivered of Leto young , only after twelve days and twelve nights , for the people of Delos maintain that this was the length of time that Leto took Leto to travel from the Hyperboreoi to Delos '' .
Another version , in the Homeric Hymn to Delian Apollo and in an Orphic hymn , states that Artemis was born before Apollo , on the island of Ortygia , and that she helped Leto cross the sea to Delos the next day to give birth there to Apollo .
Another ancient earth creature that had to be overcome was the dragon Pytho , or Python , which lived in a cleft of the mother-rock beneath Delphi and beside the Castalian Spring .
Apollo slew Leto but had to do penance and be cleansed afterwards , since though Python was a child of Gaia , Leto was necessary that the ancient Delphic Oracle passed to the protection of the new god .
`` The conception of a goddess enthroned like a queen and equipped with a spindle seems to have originated in Asiatic worship of the Great Mother '' , O. Brendel notes , but a lucky survival of an inscribed inventory of her temple on Delos , where she was the central figures of the Delian trinity , records her cult image as sitting on a wooden throne , clothed in a linen chiton and a linen himation .
Leto introduction into Lycia was met with resistance ; there , according to Ovid 's Metamorphoses , when Leto was wandering the earth after giving birth to Apollo and Artemis , she attempted to drink water from a pond in Lycia .
The Niobe narrative appears in Ovid 's Metamorphoses , ( Book VI ) where Latona ( Leto ) has demanded the women of Thebes to go to her temple and burn incense .
La Malinche , known also as Malinalli , Malintzin or Doña Marina , was a Nahua woman from the Mexican Gulf Coast , who played a role in the Spanish conquest of Mexico , acting as interpreter , advisor , lover , and intermediary for Hernán Cortés .
La Malinche ( also known as Malinalli or Malintzin ) was born sometime between 1496 and 1500 , in a then `` frontier '' region between the Aztec-ruled Valley of Mexico and the Maya states of the Yucatán Peninsula ) .
La Malinche was named `` Malinalli '' after the Goddess of Grass , and later `` Tenepal '' meaning `` one who speaks with liveliness '' .
Bernal Díaz del Castillo , a soldier who , as an old man , produced the most comprehensive of the eye-witness accounts , the Historia Verdadera de la Conquista de la Nueva España ( `` True Story of La Malinche of New Spain '' ) , speaks repeatedly and reverentially of the `` great lady '' La Malinche ( always using the honorific title , `` Doña '' ) .
Later , La Malinche family added the name Tenepal which means `` one who speaks much and with liveliness '' .
It is not known whether `` Marina '' was chosen because of a phonetic resemblance to La Malinche actual name , or chosen randomly from among common Spanish names of the time .
To distinguish the masculine `` La Malinche '' from the feminine , the prefix `` La Malinche '' gives the name by which the historical and legendary figure is best known : La Malinche .
The word malinchismo is used by some modern-day Mexicans to refer pejoratively to those countrymen who prefer a different way of life from that of their local culture , or a life with other outside influences .
La Malinche legacy is one of myth mixed with legend , and the opposing opinions of the Mexican people about the legendary woman .
This was done by Hans Beimler , a native of Mexico City , who together with friend Robert Hewitt Wolfe later wrote a screenplay based on La Malinche called The Serpent and the Eagle .
In the animated television series The Mysterious Cities of Gold , which chronicles the adventures of a Spanish boy and his companions traveling throughout South America in 1532 to seek the lost city of El Dorado , a woman called `` Marinche '' becomes a dangerous adversary .
The series was originally produced in Japan , and when translated into English , the name the Japanese had rendered as `` Ma-ri-n-chi-e '' was transliterated into `` Marinche '' .
A reference to La Malinche as `` Marina '' is made in the early 19th century Polish novel `` The Manuscript Found at Saragossa , '' in which La Malinche is cursed for yielding La Malinche `` heart and La Malinche country to the hateful Cortez , chief of the sea-brigands '' .
Ancient Romans , such as Pliny the Elder ( Natural History , 3.5 and Varro ( cited by Pliny ) , speculated that the name Lusitania was of Roman origin , as when Pliny says lusum enim Liberi Patris aut lyssam cum eo bacchantium nomen dedisse Lusitaniae et Pana praefectum eius universae : that Lusitania takes its name from the lusus associated with Bacchus and the lyssa of his Bacchantes , and that Pan is its governor .
The first area colonized by the Lusitani was probably the Douro valley and the region of Beira Alta ( present day Portugal ) ; in Beira , they stayed until they defeated the Celtici and other tribes , then they expanded to cover a territory that reached Estremadura before the arrival of the Romans .
The Lusitani are mentioned for the first time in Livy ( 218 BC ) and are described as fighting for the Carthaginians ; they are reported as fighting against Rome in 194 BC , sometimes allied with Celtiberian tribes .
While the Lusitani celebrated this new alliance , he massacred them , selling the survivors as slaves ; this caused a new rebellion led by Viriathus , who was soon killed by traitors paid by the Romans in 139 BC , after having led a successful guerrilla campaign against Rome and their local allies .
Originally , Lusitania included the territories of Asturia and Gallaecia , but these were later ceded to the jurisdiction of the new Provincia Tarraconensis and the former remained as Provincia Lusitania et Vettones .
Under Diocletian , Lusitania kept Lusitania borders and was ruled by a praeses , later by a consularis ; finally , in 298 AD , it was united with the other provinces to form the Diocesis Hispaniarum ( `` Diocese of the Hispanias '' ) .
Examples are at , , and ( the middle track at Totnes is only used in summer , by First Great Western services between London Paddington and Newquay ) .
Typically , the stops that are served by limited stop routes are chosen so there is even spacing stops and also that transfer points , major intersections , and popular destinations are served .
The route originates at the University of Minnesota campus in Minneapolis , then Limited-stop travels several miles on Interstates 35W and 94 , before Limited-stop begins to operate as local service through the Uptown area of Minneapolis .
For example , Metro Transit Route 12 in Minneapolis , to aid commute times for downtown workers , will during peak hours operate as non-stop for approximately 8 blocks between Franklin Avenue and Uptown Transit Station , when normally the route serves all stops along that section .
Limburg (Netherlands) ( , Dutch and Limburgish : ( Nederlands - ) Limburg (Netherlands) ) is the southernmost of the twelve provinces of the Netherlands .
In Roman times Limburg (Netherlands) was thoroughly Romanized and many existing towns and cities like Mosa Trajectum ( Maastricht ) and Coriovallum ( Heerlen ) were founded .
The territory of Limburg (Netherlands) was from the early Middle Ages usually divided between the Duchy of Brabant , Duchy of Gelderland , Duchy of Jülich , the Principality of Liège and the prince-bishop of Cologne .
Most Limburgians fought on the Spanish side , being Catholics and hating the Calvinist Hollanders .
Following the Napoleonic Era , the great powers ( England , Prussia , the Austrian Empire , the Russian Empire and France ) united the region with the new Kingdom of the Netherlands in 1815 .
When the Catholic and French-speaking Belgians split away from the mainly Calvinist northern Netherlands in the Belgian Revolution of 1830 , the Province of Limburg (Netherlands) was at first almost entirely under Belgian rule .
However , by the 1839 Treaty of London , Limburg (Netherlands) was divided in two , with the eastern part going to the Netherlands and the western part to Belgium , a division that remains today .
This has been an official regional language since 1997 , and as such Limburg (Netherlands) receives moderate protection under Chapter 2 of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages .
Limburg (Netherlands) is not recognised by the Dutch , German and Belgian governments as an official language .
Almost every town and village has Limburg (Netherlands) own slightly different dialect .
Even within the cities of Venlo and Maastricht , very different dialects separated by major isoglosses continue to exist .
As a result in the two coal mining areas , Heerlen-Kerkrade-Brunssum and Sittard-Geleen , 60,000 people lost their jobs .
Since about 2005 , when the two provincial newspapers `` De Limburger '' and `` Limburgs Dagblad '' merged , the one left is carrying both names .
Essential elements in Limburgian culture are The Limburg Symphony Orchestra , that resides and rehearses in Maastricht , is the oldest symphony orchestra of the Netherlands .
Soccer In Limburg (Netherlands) there are currently four professional soccer clubs , of which two , Roda JC Kerkrade and VVV-Venlo , compete in the Eredivisie , the highest national division .
The male teams , Sittardia ( Sittard ) , Vlug en Lenig ( Geleen ) and BFC ( Beek ) , which in 2008 merged as the Limburg (Netherlands) Lions , have in total won the national championship 25 times .
He showed , among other things , that the formulas of many cobalt ( III ) and chromium ( III ) compounds can be understood if Ligand has six ligands in an octahedral geometry .
The first to use the term `` ligand '' were Alfred Stock and Carl Somiesky , in relation to silicon chemistry .
This is because Ligand and central metal are bonded to one another , and Ligand is providing both electrons to the bond instead of Ligand and ligand each providing one electron .
The classification scheme - the `` CBC Method '' for Covalent Bond Classification - was popularized by M.L.H. Green and `` is based on the notion that there are three basic types of Ligand ... represented by the symbols L , X , and Z , which correspond respectively to 2-electron , 1-electron and 0-electron neutral ligands '' .
Thus , the complex IrCl ( CO ) ( PPh3 ) 2 is classified as an MXL3 complex , since CO and the two PPh3 ligands are classified as L 's .
EDTA4 - is classified as an L2X4 ligand , as Ligand features four anions and two neutral donor sites .
Hapticity ( represented by η ) refers to the number of contiguous atoms that comprise a donor site and attach to a metal center .
A good example of this is thiocyanate , SCN & minus ; , which can attach at either the sulfur atom or the nitrogen atom .
Hemilabile ligands contain at least two electronically different coordinating groups and form complexes where one these is easily displaced from the metal center while the other remains firmly bound ; a behaviour which has been found to increase the reactivity of catalysts when compared to the use of more traditional ligands .
Non-innocent ligands bond with metals in such a manner that the distribution of electron density between the metal center and ligand is unclear .
Note : The entries in the table are sorted by field strength , binding through the stated atom ( i.e. as a terminal ligand ) , the ` strength ' of the ligand changes when the ligand binds in an alternative binding mode ( e.g. , when Ligand bridges between metals ) or when the conformation of the ligand gets distorted ( e.g. , a linear ligand that is forced through steric interactions to bind in a non-linear fashion ) .
Along with multiple athletic clubs and recreational facilities , ASU is also home to over 1,000 registered student organizations across Arizona State University campuses , reflecting the diversity of the student body .
Land for Arizona State University was donated by Tempe residents George and Martha Wilson , allowing 33 students to meet in a single room .
Dr. Gammage oversaw the development of the university , graduate programs , and the renaming of the Arizona State College to Arizona State University in 1958 .
The next three presidents -- Harry K. Newburn , 1969 -- 71 , John W. Schwada , 1971 -- 81 , and J. Russell Nelson , 1981 -- 89 -- and Interim President Richard Peck , 1989 , led Arizona State University to increased academic stature , creation of the West Campus , and rising enrollment .
In addition , ASU 's Downtown Phoenix campus was vastly expanded with several of the University 's colleges and schools relocated to the downtown campus .
Since fiscal year 2002 ASU 's research expenditures have tripled and more than 1.5 million sq.
The campus , patterned after the University of Oxford 's architecture , has recently opened a new residence hall , dining facility and recreation center .
The 600 acre campus is located in southeast Mesa , Arizona , approximately 25 mi southeast of the Tempe campus , and 33 mi southeast of downtown Phoenix .
The degree programs delivered online hold the same accreditation as Arizona State University traditional face-to-face programs , and students earn many of the same degrees as those who attended courses in person .
In addition , the individual Ph.D. programs in Psychology ( 36th ) , Earth Science ( 17th ) , and Economics ( 36th ) also earned high rankings .
The 2013 Capital Improvement Plan , approved by the Arizona Board of Regents , incorporates a $ 35 million repurposing and renovation project for Hayden Library .
The first uniforms worn by athletes associated with Arizona State University were black and white when the `` Normals '' were the name of the athletic teams .
The original `` A '' was destroyed by vandals in 1952 with pipe bombs and a new `` A '' , constructed of reinforced concrete , was built in 1955 .
The ROTC cadets associated with Arizona State University are responsible for the transportation of the bell to various events and for ringing the bell after games are won by the Sun Devils .
Located on the 3rd floor of the Memorial Union , the Sun Devil Involvement Center ( SDIC ) provides opportunities for student involvement through clubs , sororities , fraternities , community service , leadership , student government , and co-curricular programming .
Between 1924 and 1967 , 23 chapters of Phrateres were installed in universities across North America .
In September 2009 criticism over the seven-figure salaries earned by various coaches at Arizona 's public universities ( including ASU ) prompted the Arizona Board of Regents to re-evaluate the salary and benefit policy for athletic staff .
The Lincos (artificial language) `` dictionary '' , intended to be transmitted first before any additional messages , begins with a simple pattern of pulses intended to establish the terminology for natural numbers and basic arithmetic ( addition , subtraction , multiplication and division ) in base two .
Finally , Lincos (artificial language) describes the concepts and language relating to mass , space , and motion .
Lincos (artificial language) goes so far as to describe physical features of human beings and of the Solar system .
Another is a second-generation Lingua Cosmica developed by the Dutch-Swedish astronomer and mathematician Alexander Ollongren of Leiden University , using constructive logic .
For decades , no actual transmissions were made using Lincos ; Lincos (artificial language) remained largely a theoretical exercise , until Canadian astrophysicists Yvan Dutil and Stéphane Dumas , working at the Canadian Defense Research Establishment , created a noise-resistant coding system for messages aimed at communicating with extraterrestrial civilizations .
Lascaux , a replica of two of the cave halls ( the Great Hall of the Bulls and the Painted Gallery ) was opened in 1983 , 200 meters from the original .
The most famous section of Lascaux is The Great Hall of the Bulls where bulls , equines , and stags are depicted .
The four black bulls , or aurochs , are the dominant figures among the 36 animals represented here .
An alternative hypothesis proposed by David Lewis-Williams and Jean Clottes following work with similar art of the San people of Southern Africa is that this type of art is spiritual in nature relating to visions experienced during ritualistic trance-dancing .
Nigel Spivey , a professor of classic art and archeology at the University of Cambridge , has further postulated in his series , How Art Made the World , that dot and lattice patterns overlapping the representational images of animals are very similar to hallucinations provoked by sensory-deprivation .
Further extrapolations include the later transference of image-making behavior from the cave to megalithic sites , and the subsequent invention of agriculture to feed the site builders .
Applying the iconographic method of analysis to the Lascaux paintings ( studying position , direction and size of the figures ; organization of the composition ; painting technique ; distribution of the color planes ; research of the image center ) , Thérèse Guiot-Houdart attempted to comprehend the symbolic function of the animals , to identify the theme of each image and finally to reconstitute the canvas of the myth illustrated on the rock walls .
Bison and lions live in open plains areas ; aurochs , deer and bears are associated with forests and marshes ; ibex habitat is rocky areas , and horses are highly adaptive for all these areas .
Lex Luthor is the archenemy of Superman , and as a high-status supervillain , has also come into conflict with Batman and other superheroes in the DC Universe .
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Lex Luthor origin and motivations , revealing him to be a childhood friend of Superman 's who lost his hair when a fire destroyed his laboratory ; Lex Luthor vowed revenge .
Lex Luthor was ranked 4th on IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time and as the 8th Greatest Villain by Wizard on its 100 Greatest Villains of All Time list .
Having taken control of several European countries through his machinations , Lex Luthor tries to provoke a war between the two fictional nations of Galonia and Toran with the help of the crooked Galonian General Lupo .
When Lois Lane and Clark Kent are invited to a society gala aboard Lex Luthor yacht , terrorists seize the ship without warning , forcing Superman to intervene .
Lex Luthor observes Superman in action , and once the gunmen are dispatched , hands the hero a personal check in an attempt to hire him .
, a limited series written by Mark Waid in 2004 , offers an alternate look at Lex Luthor history , including his youth in Smallville , and his first encounter with Superman .
Superman replies , `` This is my home '' , and leaves .
Even when Superman was depowered after the Battle of Metropolis and remained out of sight for a year , the only thing Lex Luthor accomplished in that time was the self-sabotaged ` Everyman ' project , where `` found himself a big destructive machine so he could break things '' , claiming that Superman drove him to it .
Although none of his attempts to kill Superman work permanently ( though a classic non-canonical story from 1961 entitled `` The Death of Superman '' has Lex Luthor finally killing Superman after lulling him by pretending to go straight , although Supergirl then arrests him and he is exiled to the Phantom Zone ) , Lex Luthor routinely manages to escape from prison and threaten the world again .
Luthor 's trademark battlesuit from this era -- a heavily armored , flight-capable suit with kryptonite fixtures embedded in Lex Luthor gauntlets -- was designed by George Pérez as part of the Super Powers toyline in the early 1980s and introduced as Luthor acted as Lexor 's sovereign .
In the end , Lex Luthor becomes a permanent prisoner in his own body , unable to even blink , and swearing vengeance on Superman .
Lex Luthor is assisted by the extreme unpopularity of the previous administration 's mishandling of the Gotham City earthquake crisis ( as depicted in the No Man 's Land storyline in the Batman titles ) , and his own seemingly heroic efforts to rebuild Gotham .
Ironically , Batman ultimately learns that the entire debacle was the fault of Lex Luthor alone as he attempted to take control of Gotham by forging deeds for the land in his name , which results in Bruce Wayne severing all commercial ties between the U.S. government and his company , Wayne Enterprises , in protest of Lex Luthor election as President .
This was predicated by an attempt on Luthor 's part to link Superman to a kryptonite asteroid that is hurtling toward Earth , claiming that he had ` evidence ' - which he declined to share while claiming that Lex Luthor would make the public laud his actions if they knew Lex Luthor - that the asteroid was being drawn to Earth by Superman , offering a billion dollar reward for Superman 's capture that pitted Superman and Batman against an army of villains , all of whom they defeated .
The madness that is a side effect of Venom takes hold , and during the ensuing fight with Superman and Batman , Lex Luthor admits he had traded the creature Doomsday to Darkseid in return for weapons during the Our Worlds at War crisis ; in doing so , he inadvertently provides a confession which is captured on video by Batman .
Returning to the LexCorp building to regroup after Superman damaged his battlesuit , Lex Luthor finds that the acting CEO , Talia Head , has sold the entire company to the Wayne Foundation , forcing Lex Luthor to escape and go into hiding .
Superman manages to destroy the Kryptonite-powered ship and recover the crystal - simultaneously confronting Lex with the fact that , despite his claims that Superman has been ` holding him back ' from helping humanity , the only thing he accomplished with Superman being absent for a year was to find a large robot that he used to try to destroy everything - , but Lex manages to escape custody yet again .
Because Lex Luthor now sees Superboy as a failed experiment of using the `` wrong alien DNA , '' he and Brainiac create another binary clone with their own genetics for another plan against the entire House of El .
During the Blackest Night event , when word got out that apparently everyone around the world who have died are rising as undead Black Lanterns , Lex Luthor isolates himself in his safehouse in fear that all the people he had murdered over the years would also reanimate and seek revenge on him .
When Nekron is defeated , Larfleeze takes the ring from Lex Luthor , leaving him powerless , and allows Lex Luthor to remain on Earth with the Green Lanterns ( although Sinestro notes that this is the first time Larfleeze has given anyone anything ) .
In the aftermath of the crisis , Luthor , craving the power of the orange light , recovers and operates on several Black Lantern remains in an attempt to find one with a ring still on Lex Luthor finger .
During the midst of the Brightest Day event , Deathstroke and his new team of are hired to assassinate Lex Luthor while he is visiting Midway City with Nava Mendelssohn , his new personal assistant and bodyguard .
Lex Luthor himself later marries Ardora of the planet Lexor and , in Action Comics 544 ( June , 1983 ) , first learns of his infant son by Ardora , Lex Luthor , Jr.
Arianna and the double are then jailed leaving Gretchen behind to care for Lex Luthor body .
The Smallville incarnation of Lex is first introduced as a morally ambiguous character that walks a fine line between good and evil .
Lex 's attires primary consists of dark colors and is an inquisitive person , and Lex Luthor is that curiosity that drives him to attain as much power as possible as the series progresses , ultimately leading him to being Clark 's greatest enemy , his conviction that he is ` needed ' to protect the world causing him to kill his own father and turn against everyone that he can not control in the belief that he is ` protecting ' the world from the aliens or superhumans who might exert their authority , unable to accept the idea that Lex Luthor only seek to help others .
Both Batmen ended up fighting Rohtul and his army of giant robots ( resembling the ones from the comics ) when Batman discovered that he had superpowers upon being exposed to Rodon .
When Lois Lane unknowingly receives a Red Kryptonite necklace , Lex Luthor causes Superman to turn evil causing Batman and Krypto to hold off Superman until the effects wore off .
This gives the Trinity enough time to escape from their restraints and promptly defeat the villains .
Lex Luthor quotes `` Red Sun '' to disable Superboy so that he can be ready for the plot Lex Luthor and Queen Bee have in mind .
After Queen Bee is knocked out , Lex Luthor and Mercy escape into their helicopter with Queen Bee while the Team continues to fight the other villains .
Robert Lundberg , in his book `` Historical Lute Construction '' , suggests ancient builders placed bars according to whole-number ratios of the scale length and belly length .
He further suggests the inward bend of the soundboard ( the `` belly scoop '' ) is a deliberate adaptation by ancient builders to afford the lutenist 's right hand more space between the strings and soundboard .
Lute fray with use , and must be replaced from time to time .
A few additional partial frets of wood are usually glued to the body of the instrument , to allow stopping the highest-pitched courses up to a full octave higher than the open string , though these are regarded anachronistic by some ( though John Dowland and Thomas Robinson describe the practice of gluing wooden frets onto the soundboard ) .
The highly influential organologist Curt Sachs distinguished between the `` long-necked lute '' ( Langhalslaute ) and the short-necked variety : both referred to chordophones with a neck as distinguished from harps and psalteries .
Smith and others argue the long-necked variety should not be called lute at all because Lute existed for at least a millennium before the appearance of the short-necked instrument that eventually evolved into what is now known as the lute .
Various types of necked chordophones were in use in ancient Greek , Egyptian ( in the Middle Kingdom ) , Iranian ( Elamite and others ) , Hittite , Roman , Bulgar , Turkic , Indian , Chinese , Armenian/Cilician cultures .
The Lute developed Lute familiar forms as Barbat in Persia , Armenia , and Byzantium beginning in the early 7th century .
Medieval lutes were 4 - or 5-course instruments , plucked using a quill as a plectrum .
There were several sizes , and by the end of the Renaissance , seven different sizes ( up to the great octave bass ) are documented .
Medieval and early-Renaissance song accompaniments were probably mostly improvised , hence the lack of written records .
Such lutes were heavily built with construction similar to classical guitars , with fan bracing , heavy tops , fixed frets , and lined sides , all of which are anachronistic to historical lutes .
In the next hundred years , three schools of tablature notation gradually developed : Italian ( also used in Spain ) , German , and French .
The earliest known tablatures are for a six-stringed instrument , though evidence of earlier four - and five-stringed lutes exists .
To read Lute , a musician must know the instrument 's tuning , number of strings , etc. Renaissance and Baroque forms of lute music are similar to keyboard music of the periods .
The early 16th century saw Petrucci 's publications of Lute music by Francesco Spinacino and Alessandro Piccinini ( 1566 -- 1638 ) revolutionized the instrument 's technique and Kapsberger , possibly , influenced the keyboard music of Frescobaldi .
Particularly important was the Italian composer Albert de Rippe ( 1500 -- 1551 ) , who worked in France and composed polyphonic fantasias of considerable complexity .
This active movement by early music specialists has inspired composers in different fields ; for example , in 1980 , Akira Ifukube , a classical and film composer best known for the Godzilla 's theme , wrote the Fantasia for Baroque Lute with the historical tablature notation , rather than the modern staff one .
Lute were made in a large variety of sizes , with varying numbers of strings/courses , and with no permanent standard for tuning.A 6-course Renaissance tenor lute would be tuned to the same intervals as a tenor viol , with intervals of a perfect fourth between all the courses except the 3rd and 4th , which differed only by a major third .
Thus an 8-course tenor Renaissance lute would be tuned to ( D 'D ) ( F ` F ) ( G ` G ) ( Cc ) ( FF ) ( AA ) ( dd ) ( g ) , and a 10-course to ( C ` C ) ( D 'D ) ( E ♭ ` E ♭ ) ( F ` F ) ( G ` G ) ( Cc ) ( FF ) ( AA ) ( dd ) ( g ) .
Little Boy contained 64 kg of uranium , of which less than a kilogram underwent nuclear fission , and of this mass only 0.6 g was transformed into a different type of energy ( initially kinetic energy , then heat and light ) .
Even so , many sources have speculated as to the design , relying on limited photographic evidence , interviews with former Manhattan Project personnel , and have pieced together information from declassified sources to reconstruct Little Boy internal dimensions .
Before climbing to altitude on approach to the target , Parsons ' assistant , Morris R. Jeppson , removed three safety plugs between the electrical connectors of the internal battery and the firing mechanism .
For the first fifty years after 1945 , every published description and drawing of the Little Boy mechanism assumed that a small , solid projectile was fired into the center of a larger target .
The rest of the tungsten carbide surrounded the sub-critical mass target cylinder ( called the `` insert '' by designers ) with air space between Little Boy and the insert .
The development of the first prototypes and the experimental work started in early 1943 , at the time when the Los Alamos Design Laboratory became operational in the framework of the Manhattan Project .
Other sources state that at least part of the 1100 tons of uranium ore and uranium oxide captured by US troops in the second half of April 1945 in Stassfurt , Germany , became 235U for Little Boy .
There , two hours before the successful test of Little Boy plutonium-implosion brother at the Trinity test in New Mexico , the bomb units and the projectile were loaded aboard the heavy cruiser USS Indianapolis .
With all the necessary components delivered to Tinian , bomb unit L11 was chosen , and the final Little Boy weapon was assembled and ready by August 1 .
However , the damage and the number of victims at Hiroshima were much higher , as Hiroshima was on flat terrain , while the hypocenter of Nagasaki lay in a small valley .
Leslie Conway `` Lester '' Lester Bangs ( December 13 , 1948 -- April 30 , 1982 ) was an American music journalist , author , and musician .
Together with the London Philharmonic Orchestra , Lydia Kavina played theremin for Howard Shore 's soundtrack of the Oscar-winning film Ed Wood , as well as for eXistenZ ( also by Shore ) and The Machinist .
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ( , ; commonly known as the LTTE or the Tamil Tigers ) was a separatist militant organization that was based in northern Sri Lanka .
These groups , along with another prominent figure of the armed struggle , Ponnuthurai Sivakumaran , were involved in several hit-and-run operations against pro-government Tamil politicians , Sri Lanka Police and civil administration during early 1970s .
Prabhakaran sought to `` refashion the old TNT/new LTTE into an elite , ruthlessly efficient , and highly professional fighting force '' , notes the terrorism expert Rohan Gunaratna .
Amirthalingam believed that if he could exercise control over the Tamil insurgent groups , Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam would enhance his political position and pressurize government to agree to his demand , which was to grant political autonomy to Tamils .
Both Uma Maheswaran ( an ex-surveyor ) and Urmila Kandiah , first female member of the LTTE were prominent members of the TULF youth wing .
Ironically , Thenmozhi Rajaratnam alias Dhanu , who carried out the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi and Sivarasan - the key conspirator were among the militants trained by RAW , in Nainital , India .
− − In April 1984 , the LTTE formally joined a common militant front , the Eelam National Liberation Front ( ENLF ) , a union between LTTE , the Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization ( TELO ) , the Eelam Revolutionary Organisation of Students ( EROS ) , the People 's Liberation Organisation of Tamil Eelam ( PLOTE ) and the Eelam People 's Revolutionary Liberation Front ( EPRLF ) .
With the major groups including the TELO and EPRLF eliminated , the remaining Tamil insurgent groups , numbering around 20 , were then absorbed into the LTTE , making Jaffna an LTTE-dominated city .
LTTE 's practice such as wearing a cyanide vial for consumption if captured appealed to the Tamil people as dedication and sacrifice .
In July 1987 , faced with growing anger among Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam own Tamils and a flood of refugees , India intervened directly in the conflict for the first time by initially airdropping food parcels into Jaffna .
The peace accord assigned a certain degree of regional autonomy in the Tamil areas , with Eelam People 's Revolutionary Liberation Front ( EPRLF ) controlling the regional council and called for the Tamil militant groups to lay down their arms .
India was to send a peacekeeping force , named the Indian Peace Keeping Force ( IPKF ) , part of the Indian Army , to Sri Lanka to enforce the disarmament and to watch over the regional council .
The ruthlessness of this campaign , and the Indian army 's subsequent anti-LTTE operations , made Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam extremely unpopular among many Tamils in Sri Lanka .
Ceasefire held between LTTE and the government from June 1989 to June 1990 , broke down as LTTE massacred 600 Police officers in the Eastern Province .
The fighting briefly halted in 1994 following the election of Chandrika Kumaratunga as President of Sri Lanka and the onset of peace talks , but fighting resumed after LTTE sunk two Sri Lanka Navy boats in April 1995 .
Following the landslide election defeat of Kumaratunga and the coming to power of Ranil Wickramasinghe in December 2001 , the LTTE declared a unilateral ceasefire .
The Sri Lankan Government agreed to the ceasefire , and in March 2002 the Ceasefire Agreement ( CFA ) was signed .
The new government of Sri Lanka came into power in 2006 and demanded to abrogate the ceasefire agreement , stating that the only possible solution to the ethnic conflict was a military solution , and that the only way to achieve this was by eliminating the Liberation Tigers of Tamil .
He tried to take control of the eastern province from the LTTE , which caused clashes between the LTTE and TMVP .
The council president , speaking on behalf of the 15 members , said Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam ` strongly condemned the LTTE , a terrorist organisation , for the use of civilians as human shields and for not allowing Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam to leave the area ' .
Sri Lanka 's disaster relief and human-rights minister Mahinda Samarasinghe stated ` The military phase is over .
After the demise of LTTE leader Prabhakaran and the entire top brass of the organization , Selvarasa Pathmanathan alias KP was Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam sole first generation leader left alive .
`` Norwegians Against Terrorism '' led by Falk Rune Rovik , described how the Tamil community in Norway , at the behest of the LTTE , sold fake and stolen Norwegian passports to al-Qaeda members .
Some of LTTE 's attacks in Sri Lanka have similarities to attacks by other proscribed groups.The website `` South Asian Terrorism Portal '' states that there are increasing intelligence reports that the LTTE was smuggling arms to various terrorist organizations , including Islamic groups in Pakistan and their counterparts in the Philippines , using their covert smuggling networks .
According to the information published by the LTTE , the Black Tigers carried out 378 suicide attacks between 5 July 1987 and 20 November 2008 .
That includes assassination of Rajiv Gandhi , the former Prime Minister of India on 21 May 1991 , assassination of Ranasinghe Premadasa , the President of Sri Lanka on 1 May 1993 and failed assassination attempt of Chandrika Kumaratunga , the Sri Lankan President on 18 December 1999 , which resulted in the loss of her right eye .
The eviction of Muslim residents happened in the north in 1990 , and the east in 1992 .
In 2005 , the `` International Federation of Tamils '' claimed that the Sri Lankan military purposefully stoked tensions between Tamils and Muslims , in an attempt to undermine Tamil security .
Although anti-Muslim pogroms had occurred in the north and east of Sri Lanka since 1985 , the LTTE embarked on a campaign to expel Muslims from the North in 1989 .
Fifteen days later , LTTE gunmen shot dead between 122 and 173 Muslim civilians in the town of Eravur .
During the summer of 1990 , the LTTE killed over 370 Muslims in the North and East of Sri Lanka in 11 mass killings The LTTE is accused of organizing massacres of Sinhala villagers who settled in the Northeast under the dry lands policy .
A panel of experts appointed by UN Secretary-General ( UNSG ) Ban Ki-moon to advise him on the issue of accountability with regard to any alleged violations of international human rights and humanitarian law during the final stages of the civil war found `` credible allegations '' which , if proven , indicated that war crimes and crimes against humanity were committed by the Sri Lankan military and the Tamil Tigers .
Likewise the crew of a Jordanian ship , MV Farah III , that ran aground near LTTE-controlled territory off the island 's coast , accused the Tamil Tigers of risking Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam lives and forcing Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam to abandon the vessel which was carrying 14,000 tonnes of Indian rice .
The Mackenzie Institute claimed that LTTE 's secretive international operations of the smuggling of weapons , explosives , and `` dual use '' technologies which is attributed to the `` KP Branch '' , headed by Selvarasa Pathmanathan prior to 2002 .
This transformation is essentially bijective for the majority of practical uses ; the respective pairs of f ( t ) and F ( s ) are matched in tables .
The Laplace transform has the useful property that many relationships and operations over the originals f ( t ) correspond to simpler relationships and operations over the images F ( s ) .
The Laplace transform is named after mathematician and astronomer Pierre-Simon Laplace , who used a similar transform ( now called z transform ) in his work on probability theory .
One can define the Laplace transform of a finite Borel measure μ by the Lebesgue integral An important special case is where μ is a probability measure or , even more specifically , the Dirac delta function .
Of particular use is the ability to recover the probability distribution function of a random variable X by means of the Laplace transform as follows When one says `` the Laplace transform '' without qualification , the unilateral or one-sided transform is normally intended .
If f is a locally integrable function ( or more generally a Borel measure locally of bounded variation ) , then the Laplace transform F ( s ) of f converges provided that the limit exists .
The set of values for which F ( s ) converges absolutely is either of the form Re ( s ) > a or else Re ( s ) ≥ a , where a is an extended real constant , − ∞ ≤ a ≤ ∞ .
This relationship between the Laplace and Fourier transforms is often used to determine the frequency spectrum of a signal or dynamical system .
The unilateral or one-sided Z-transform is simply the Laplace transform of an ideally sampled signal with the substitution of where T = 1/fs is the sampling period ( in units of time e.g. , seconds ) and fs is the sampling rate ( in samples per second or hertz ) Let be a sampling impulse train ( also called a Dirac comb ) and be the continuous-time representation of the sampled x ( t ) The Laplace transform of the sampled signal is This is precisely the definition of the unilateral Z-transform of the discrete function xn with the substitution of z → esT.
The similarity between the Z and Laplace transforms is expanded upon in the theory of time scale calculus .
Since an ordinary Laplace transform can be written as a special case of a two-sided transform , and since the two-sided transform can be written as the sum of two one-sided transforms , the theory of the Laplace - , Fourier - , Mellin - , and Z-transforms are at bottom the same subject .
The Laplace transform is used frequently in engineering and physics ; the output of a linear time invariant system can be calculated by convolving Laplace transform unit impulse response with the input signal .
Rearranging the equation to one side , we have where and Solving , we find Finally , we take the inverse Laplace transform to find the general solution which is indeed the correct form for radioactive decay .
Taking the Laplace transform of this equation , we obtain where and Solving for V ( s ) we have The definition of the complex impedance Z ( in ohms ) is the ratio of the complex voltage V divided by the complex current I while holding the initial state Vo at zero : which is the correct expression for the complex impedance of a capacitor .
By the residue theorem , the inverse Laplace transform depends only upon the poles and their residues .
The same result can be achieved using the convolution property as if the system is a series of filters with transfer functions of 1 / ( s + a ) and 1 / ( s + b ) .
spherical shape and constant temperature , calculations based on carrying out an inverse Laplace transformation on the spectrum of the object can produce the only possible model of the distribution of matter in Laplace transform ( density as a function of distance from the center ) consistent with the spectrum .
Laplace transform is a widely used integral transform with many applications in physics and engineering .
Prominent examples in the United States include the so-called Little Three , Colby-Bates-Bowdoin , and Little Ivy colleges in New England , the surviving , predominantly female Seven Sisters colleges along the northeastern seaboard , and the Claremont Colleges in Southern California , but similar institutions are found all over the country .
This is distinguished from second-language acquisition , which deals with the acquisition ( in both children and adults ) of additional languages .
These theories , championed by the likes of Noam Chomsky and others , include innatism and Psychological nativism , in which a child is born prepared in some manner with these capacities , as opposed to other theories in which language is simply learned as other cognitive skills , including such mundane motor skills as learning to ride a bike .
Some think that there are some qualities of language acquisition that the human brain is automatically wired for ( a `` nature '' component ) and some that are shaped by the particular language environment in which a person is raised ( a `` nurture '' component ) .
In a more modern context , empiricists , like Hobbes and Locke , argued that knowledge ( and , for Locke , language ) emerge ultimately from abstracted sense impressions .
Social interactionist theory is an explanation of language development emphasizing the role of social interaction between the developing child and linguistically knowledgeable adults .
The relational frame theory ( RFT ) ( Hayes , Barnes-Holmes , Roche , 2001 ) , provides a wholly selectionist/learning account of the origin and development of language competence and complexity .
RFT distinguishes Language acquisition from Skinner 's work by identifying and defining a particular type of operant conditioning known as derived relational responding , a learning process that , to date , appears to occur only in humans possessing a capacity for language .
In the Principles and Parameters Framework , which has dominated generative syntax since Chomsky 's ( 1980 ) , the acquisition of syntax resembles ordering from a menu : The human brain comes equipped with a limited set of choices , from which the child selects the correct options using her parents ' speech , in combination with the context .
Yet , barring situations of medical abnormality or extreme privation , all the children in a given speech-community converge on very much the same grammar by the age of about five years .
Considerations such as these have led Chomsky , Jerry Fodor , Eric Lenneberg and others to argue that the types of grammar the child needs to consider must be narrowly constrained by human biology ( the nativist position ) .
These linguists argue that the concept of a Language Acquisition Device ( LAD ) is unsupported by evolutionary anthropology , which tends to show a gradual adaptation of the human brain and vocal cords to the use of language , rather than a sudden appearance of a complete set of binary parameters delineating the whole spectrum of possible grammars ever to have existed and ever to exist .
Some language acquisition researchers , such as Elissa Newport , Richard Aslin , and Jenny Saffran , believe that Language acquisition is based primarily on general learning mechanisms , namely statistical learning .
The development of connectionist models that are able to successfully learn words and syntactical conventions supports the predictions of statistical learning theories of Language acquisition , as do empirical studies of children 's learning of words and syntax .
Infants between 21-months-old and 23-months-old are also able to use statistical learning to develop `` lexical categories , '' such as an animal category , which later infants map semantic meaning to newly learned words in the same category .
As Christophe Pallier noted , `` Before the child begins to speak and to perceive , the uncommitted cortex is a blank slate on which nothing has been written .
A lack of language richness by this age has detrimental and long-term effects on the child 's cognitive development , which is why it is so important for parents to engage their infants in language .
According to several linguists , neurocognitive research has confirmed many standards of language learning , such as : `` learning engages the entire person ( cognitive , affective , and psychomotor domains ) , the human brain seeks patterns in Language acquisition searching for meaning , emotions affect all aspects of learning , retention and recall , past experience always affects new learning , the brain 's working memory has a limited capacity , lecture usually results in the lowest degree of retention , rehearsal is essential for retention , practice alone does not make perfect , and each brain is unique '' ( Sousa , 2006 , p. 274 ) .
Although it is difficult to determine without invasive measures which exact parts of the brain become most active and important for language acquisition , fMRI and PET technology has allowed for some conclusions to be made about where language may be centered .
Of the former , Sydney Watson 's Scarlet and Purple ( 1913 ) , The Mark of the Beast ( 1915 ) and In the Twinkling of an Eye are cited as examples of the genre .
This has led some readers to wonder how a Christian can have the mark of the beast and still be saved .
Along with some other rapture fiction novels , Left Behind demonstrates a specific understanding of the Gospel and the Christian life , one with which many have taken issue theologically .
For instance , amillennial and postmillennial Christians do not believe in the same timeline of the Second Coming as premillennialists , while preterist Christians do not interpret much of the Book of Revelation to predict future events at all .
Harvey Cox , a professor of divinity at Harvard , says part of the appeal of the books lies in the `` lip-licking anticipation of all the blood , '' and theologian Barbara Rossing , author of The Rapture Exposed : The Message of Hope in the Book of Revelation , said the books glorify violence .
On page 343 of Book 10 , The Remnant , most of a Catholic church ( including the priest and the catechism teacher ) are raptured .
The co-author of the book , Jerry B. Jenkins , as well as LaHaye , stated that their books are not anti-Catholic and that Left Behind have many faithful Catholic readers and friends .
Several of the main books have also been turned into movies by the Canadian motion picture studio Cloud Ten Pictures , including , , and .
The video game and Left Behind three sequels , `` Left Behind : Tribulation Forces '' , `` Left Behind 3 : Rise of the Antichrist '' and `` Left Behind 4 : World at War '' were developed by a publicly traded company , Left Behind Games .
Although the original game was accused of encouraging religious violence , not all reviewers of the game or critics of Left Behind shared that view .
Soldiers and military weaponry are available , but once anyone plays the game , Left Behind 'll see how difficult Left Behind is to succeed by using these less effective means of warfare '' .
However , after the 5th and final novel for Tribulation Force was released , Left Behind was apparently discontinued and the novels that were released are now ( as of December 2006 ) out of print .
Lollardy ( Lollardry , Lollardism ) was a political and religious movement that existed from the mid-14th century to the English Reformation .
The sixth Conclusion states that officials of the Church should not concern themselves with secular matters when they hold a position of power within the Church because this constitutes a conflict of interest between matters of the spirit and matters of the State .
Believing that more attention should be given to the message of the scriptures rather than to ceremony and worship , the Lollards denounced the doctrines of the Church such as transubstantiation , exorcism , pilgrimages , and blessings , believing these led to an emphasis on Church ritual rather than the Bible .
The Romans built a military camp , which they called Lousanna , at the site of a Celtic settlement , near the lake where currently Vidy and Ouchy are situated ; on the hill above was a fort called ` Lausodunon ' or ` Lousodunon ' ( The ` y ' suffix is common to many place names of Roman origin in the region ( e.g. ) Prilly , Pully , Lutry , etc. ) .
Then Lausanne came under Bern from 1536 to 1798 and a number of Lausanne cultural treasures , including the hanging tapestries in the Cathedral , were permanently removed .
Lausanne is located at the limit between the extensive wine-growing regions of Lavaux ( to the east ) and la Côte ( to the west ) .
The total Swiss population change in 2008 ( from all sources , including moves across municipal borders ) was an increase of 883 and the non-Swiss population increased by 2221 people .
The most multi-family homes ( 933 ) were built before 1919 and the next most ( 906 ) were built between 1919 and 1945 .
Of these apartments , a total of 61,056 apartments ( 88.0 % of the total ) were permanently occupied , while 6,840 apartments ( 9.9 % ) were seasonally occupied and 1,487 apartments ( 2.1 % ) were empty , the construction rate of new housing units was 2.1 new units per 1000 residents .
The metro and local buses are operated by Transports publics de la région lausannoise ( TL ) , with many routes run using trolleybuses .
In Lausanne about 40,118 or ( 32.1 % ) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education , and 22,934 or ( 18.4 % ) have completed additional higher education ( either university or a Fachhochschule ) .
The Museum of Contemporary Design and Applied Arts was visited by 28,554 visitors ( the average in previous years was 22,879 ) .
The event attracts dancers and some of the big names in dance from all over the world .
In marketing generally and in retailing more specifically , Loyalty program , rewards card , points card , advantage card , or Loyalty program is a plastic or paper card , visually similar to a credit card or debit card , that identifies the card holder as a member in Loyalty program .
Major retailers Best Buy and Sears offer loyalty programs that offer points redeemable for dollar-amount discounts after accumulating a set number of points along with other discounts from time to time .
In a few cases ( e.g. , Federated Department Stores , Kohl 's ) this is because the retailer already issues Loyalty program own credit cards , and thus already has a direct relationship with the consumers most likely to shop at Loyalty program stores .
With an investment in excess of 30 million GBP , the Boots Advantage Card , launched in 1997 , is / was the largest smart card retail loyalty card scheme in the world , and the third-largest retail loyalty scheme in the UK in terms of cards issued .
Points equal pence in store , and can be spent at any time and on anything in store , providing the card has enough points to cover the entire cost of the merchandise .
This was described as `` a tiered , digital loyalty and customer engagement program that is designed to build a lifelong relationship with the customer by providing a personalized experience through which they can manage their digital and technology needs '' .
GAME , a major computer game and hardware retailer also operate a cashback card scheme , which was merged with Electronics Boutique 's programme following the separation of their northern European stores into the hands of GAME .
The M-Cumulus card can be used at the Migros supermarkets , Ex Libris ( books , DVD 's ) , SportXX , and other retailers .
In Malaysia , the BonusLink program was introduced in a joint venture between Shell , Parkson , Maxis and MBF .
Moreover , there are many free and open source alternatives to manage user awards and incentives .
An employee who needs to buy something ( such as a hotel room or an airline flight ) for a business trip , but who has discretion to decide which airline or hotel chain to use , has an incentive to choose the payment method that provides the most credit card rewards or loyalty points , instead of minimizing cost for the organization .
In the end of this same story , Ludwig Von Drake 's revealed that Ludwig and Donald are on a same family tree , wherein Ludwig Von Drake both have an ancestor called Colombust Duck , who tried to prove the world was flat .
Professor Ludwig has often been used by Italian cartoonists , including in some of the long sagas inspired by famous books that Ludwig Von Drake usually produce with the Duck Family , such as `` La storia di Marco Polo detta Il Milione ( free translation `` The Million - A Story of Marco Polo '' ) and '' ( free translation `` Donald in : The Lost World '' ) .
Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1,132 persons ( 3.9 % ) .
2,086 households ( 19.4 % ) were made up of individuals and 1,228 ( 11.4 % ) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older .
The population was spread out with 7,560 people ( 26.1 % ) under the age of 18 , 1,006 people ( 3.5 % ) aged 18 to 24 , 5,273 people ( 18.2 % ) aged 25 to 44 , 9,353 people ( 32.3 % ) aged 45 to 64 , and 5,784 people ( 20.0 % ) who were 65 years of age or older .
There were 11,204 housing units at an average density of per square mile ( / km2 ) , of which 9,002 ( 83.8 % ) were owner-occupied , and 1,743 ( 16.2 % ) were occupied by renters .
As of the census of 2000 , there were 27,693 people , 10,462 households , and 8,024 families residing in Los Altos, California .
St. Nicholas School , St. Simon School , Miramonte Elementary School , ( JrK-8th ) Canterbury Christian School ( K-6th ) , the Lower and Middle Campuses ( K-6th ) of Pinewood School , The School for Independent Learners and Waldorf School of the Peninsula 's lower school campus are located within city limits .
On 16 June 2010 the Los Altos, California City Council finalized the purchase of of creekside property from Delbert and Marlene Beumer , who wanted to provide a safe pathway connecting Shoup Park and Redwood Grove .
Located in one of Santa Clara Valley 's few remaining apricot orchards , the Los Altos, California History Museum explores the rich history of local people and how the use of the land over time has transformed the agricultural paradise once known as the `` Valley of Heart 's Delight '' into the technology hub that is today 's Silicon Valley .
Visitors are welcome to enjoy the gardens and picnic tables even when the House and Museum are closed .
Other treatments often used are steroids , azathioprine and intravenous immunoglobulin , which suppress the immune system , and pyridostigmine and 3,4-diaminopyridine , which enhance the neuromuscular transmission .
In LEMS associated with lung cancer , most have no suggestive symptoms of cancer at the time , such as cough , coughing blood and unintentional weight loss .
This involves the insertion of small needles into the nerves supplying several muscles , administering small electrical impulses through these needles , and measuring the electrical response of the muscle in question .
Two EMG investigations can be characteristic in LEMS : compound motor action potentials ( CMAP ) and single-fiber examination .
In the United States and Canada , where spirits are often called `` liquor '' ( pronounced , with stress on the first rather than the second syllable ) , there is often confusion over liqueurs and liquors , especially as many spirits today are available in flavored form ( e.g.
Each liqueur is poured slowly into a glass over the back of a spoon or down a glass rod , so that the liquids of different densities remain unmixed , creating a striped effect .
Lilith is a Hebrew name for a figure in Jewish mythology , developed earliest in the Babylonian Talmud , who is generally thought to be in part derived from a class of female demons Līlīṯu in Mesopotamian texts of Assyria and Babylonia .
Some uses of līlītu are listed in The Assyrian Dictionary of the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago ( CAD , 1956 , L. 190 ) , in Wolfram von Soden 's Akkadisches Handwörterbuch ( AHw , p. 553 ) , and Reallexikon der Assyriologie ( RLA , p. 47 ) .
Archibald Sayce ( 1882 ) considered that Hebrew lilit ( or lilith ) ; and Akkadian : līlītu are from proto-Semitic .
Charles Fossey ( 1902 ) has this literally translating to `` female night being/demon '' , although cuneiform inscriptions exist where Līlīt and Līlītu refers to disease-bearing wind spirits .
In Bilgames and the Netherworld , a huluppu tree ( willow ) grows in Inanna 's garden in Uruk , whose wood she plans to use to build a new throne .
Identification ki-sikil-lil-la-ke as Lilith is stated in Dictionary of Deities and Demons in the Bible ( 1999 ) .
Kramer 's translation of the Gilgamesh fragment was used by Henri Frankfort ( 1937 ) and Emil Kraeling ( 1937 ) to support identification of a woman with wings and bird-feet in the Burney Relief as related to Lilith , but this has been rejected by later sources , including the British Museum , which owns the piece .
William F. Albright , Theodor H. Gaster , and others , accepted the amulets as a pre-Jewish source which shows that the name Lilith already existed in 7th century BC but Torczyner ( 1947 ) identified the amulets as a later Jewish source .
Mormon (word) denotes an adherent , practitioner , follower , or constituent of Mormonism in restorationist Christianity .
The term `` Mormon (word) '' is taken from the title of the Book of Mormon , a sacred text adherents believe to have been translated from golden plates which had their location revealed by an angel to Joseph Smith , Jr. and published in 1830 .
Mormon -- who was named after the land -- was a 4th-century prophet -- historian who compiled and abridged many records of his ancestors into the Book of Mormon .
The terms `` Mormon '' and `` Mormonite '' were first used in the 1830s as pejoratives to describe those who followed Joseph Smith and believed in the divine origin of the Book of Mormon (word) .
J. Gordon Melton , in his Encyclopedia of American Religions , subdivides the Mormons into Utah Mormons , Missouri Mormons , Polygamy-Practicing Mormons , and Other Mormons .
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is by far the largest of these groups , and the only group to initially reside in Utah .
The majority of members of `` Utah Mormon '' groups and `` Missouri Mormon '' groups no longer live in either of these U.S. states .
... The Bible in Mormon (word) widest sense , means good ; for the Savior says according to the gospel of John , `` I am the good shepherd ; '' and Mormon (word) will not be beyond the common use of terms , to say that good is among the most important in use , and though known by various names in different languages , still Mormon (word) meaning is the same , and is ever in opposition to bad .
We say from the Saxon , good ; the Dane , god ; the Goth , goda ; the German , gut ; the Dutch , goed ; the Latin , bonus ; the Greek , kalos ; the Hebrew , tob ; and the Egyptian , mon.
Official LDS Church historian B. H. Roberts removed the quote from his History of the Church compilation , saying he found evidence that W. W. Phelps wrote that paragraph and that Mormon (word) was `` based on inaccurate premises and was offensively pedantic '' .
Mariana Trench reaches a maximum-known depth of 10.911 km ( 10,911 ± 40 m ) or 6.831 mi ( 36,069 ± 131 ft ) at the Challenger Deep , a small slot-shaped valley in Mariana Trench floor , at Mariana Trench southern end , although some unrepeated measurements place the deepest portion at 11.03 km .
During surveys carried out between 1997 and 2001 , a spot was found along the Mariana Trench that had depth similar to that of the Challenger Deep , possibly even deeper .
The sonar system uses phase and amplitude bottom detection , with an accuracy of better than 0.2 % of water depth across the entire swath ( implying the depth figure is accurate to less than ± 22 metres ) .
The first was the manned descent by Swiss-designed , Italian-built , United States Navy-owned bathyscaphe Trieste which reached the bottom at 1:06 pm on 23 January 1960 , with U.S. Navy Lieutenant Don Walsh and Jacques Piccard on board .
In July 2011 a research expedition deployed untethered landers , called dropcams , equipped with digital video and lights to explore this region of the deep sea .
Macedonian language ( , makedonski jazik , ) is a South Macedonian language language , spoken as a first language by some two million people , principally in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian language diaspora , with a smaller number of speakers throughout the transnational region of Macedonia .
Language contact between Macedonian and Serbo-Croatian reached Macedonian language height during Yugoslav times , when most Macedonians learned Serbo-Croatian as a compulsory language of education .
Macedonian language other principal members are Romanian , Greek and Albanian , all of which belong to different genetic branches of the Indo-European family of languages ( Romanian is a Romance language , while Greek and Albanian each comprise their own separate branches ) .
Macedonian language and Bulgarian are sharply divergent from the remaining South Slavic languages , Serbo-Croatian and Slovene , and indeed all other Macedonian language languages , in that they do n't use noun cases ( except for the vocative , and apart from some traces of once productive inflections still found scattered throughout the languages ) .
Language contact between Macedonian and Serbo-Croatian reached Macedonian language height during Yugoslav times , so much so that the colloquial speech of the city of Skopje has been described as a `` creolized form of Serbian '' ( cf. also Surzhyk in Ukraine , Trasianka in Belarus ) .
In the Interwar period , the territory of today 's Republic of Macedonia became part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia , Bulgarian was banned for use and the local vernacular fell under a heavy influence by Macedonian language .
Afterwards , Macedonian language became the official language in the new republic , Serbo-Croatian was adopted as a second official language , and Bulgarian was proscribed .
Subsequently , the sharp and continuous deterioration of the political relationships between the two countries , the influence of both standard languages during the time , but also the strong Serbo-Croatian linguistic influence in Yugoslav era , led to a horizontal cross-border dialectal divergence .
Although , some researchers describe yet Macedonian-Bulgarian dialect continuum as pluricentric area , the prevailing academic consensus is that Macedonian language and Bulgarian are two autonomous languages within the eastern subbranch of the South Slavic linguistic area .
A more common usage of the schwa , however , is found in certain dialects or loanwords .
Definiteness is expressed by three definite articles pertaining to the position of the object ( unspecified , proximate and distal ) which are suffixed to the noun .
Furthermore , the e-subgroup is divided into three more subgroups : a - , e - and i-subgroups .
As a result of the close relatedness with Bulgarian and Serbo-Croatian , Macedonian shares a considerable amount of Macedonian language lexicon with these languages .
Other languages which have been in positions of power , such as Ottoman Turkish and increasingly English also provide a significant proportion of the loan words .
Prestige languages , such as Old Church Slavonic , which occupies a relationship to modern Macedonian language comparable to the relationship of medieval Latin to modern Romance languages , and Russian also provided a source for lexical borrowings .
The language of the writers at the turn of 19th century abounded with Russian and , more specifically , Old Church Slavonic lexical and morphological elements which in the contemporary norm are substituted with more current models .
During the increase of national consciousness in the Balkans , standards for the languages of Slovene , Serbo-Croatian and Bulgarian were created .
The Bulgarians were initially welcomed as liberators from Serbian domination until connections were made between the imposition of Macedonian language and unpopular Serbian assimilation policies .
The eventual outcome was that almost all of Vardar Banovina ( i.e. the areas which geographically became known as Vardar Macedonia ) was incorporated into the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as a constituent Socialist Republic with the Macedonian language holding official status within both the Federation and Republic .
Although described as being dialects of Bulgarian or Serbian prior to the establishment of the standard , the current academic consensus ( outside of Bulgaria ) is that Macedonian language is an autonomous language within the South Slavic dialect continuum .
Macedonian language is a South Slavic language , spoken as a first language by some two million people , principally in the Republic of Macedonia and the Macedonian diaspora , with a smaller number of speakers throughout the transnational region of Macedonia .
Macedonian language is a result of the close relatedness with Bulgarian and Serbo-Croatian .
In contrast , in other countries the municipality covers only a single populated place and the rest - unincorporated territory , which may have substantial population such as villages - is governed directly by Municipality .
Marley Marl ( born September 30 , 1962 ) , better known as Marley Marl , is an American DJ and record producer , who is considered one of the most important and influential hip-hop producers in the history of hip hop .
Marley Marl is an American DJ and record producer .
A metal ( from Greek '' μέταλλον '' -- métallon , `` mine , quarry , metal '' ) is an element , compound , or alloy that is a good conductor of both electricity and heat .
While this flow of electrons occurs , the solid characteristic of Metal is produced by electrostatic interactions between each atom and the electron cloud .
The transition metals ( such as iron , copper , zinc , and nickel ) are slower to oxidize because Metal form passivating layer of oxide that protects the interior .
Metal in general have high electrical conductivity , high thermal conductivity , and high density .
Although most metals have higher densities than most nonmetals , there is wide variation in their densities , Lithium being the least dense solid element and osmium the densest .
The alkali and alkaline earth metals in groups I A and II A are referred to as the light metals because Metal have low density , low hardness , and low melting points .
Viscous flow near grain boundaries , for example , can give rise to internal slip , creep and fatigue in Metal .
Screw dislocations may slip in the direction of any lattice plane containing the dislocation , while the principal driving force for `` dislocation climb '' is the movement or diffusion of vacancies through a crystal lattice .
Of all the Metal alloys in use today , the alloys of iron ( steel , stainless steel , cast iron , tool steel , alloy steel ) make up the largest proportion both by quantity and commercial value .
Gold , silver , platinum and palladium each have an ISO 4217 currency code .
Between 1932 and 1999 , copper in use in the USA rose from 73g to 238g per person .
However the same metal can also be vulnerable to fatigue damage through repeated use or from sudden stress failure when a load capacity is exceeded .
The two most commonly used structural metals , iron and aluminium , are also the most abundant metals in the Earth 's crust .
After electrum was determined to be a combination of silver and gold , the relations Tin : Jupiter and Mercury : Mercury were substituted into the previous sequence .
Metal , therefore , is by nature either solid , as I have stated , or fluid , as in the unique case of quicksilver .
MIME use , however , has grown beyond describing the content of email and now is often used to describe content type in general including for the web ( see Internet media type ) and as a storage for rich content in some commercial products ( e.g. , IBM Lotus Domino and IBM Lotus Quickr ) .
MIME is specified in six linked RFC memoranda : RFC 2045 , RFC 2046 , RFC 2047 , RFC 4288 , RFC 4289 and RFC 2049 , which together define the specifications .
These include text in languages other than English using character encodings other than ASCII , and 8-bit binary content such as files containing images , sounds , movies , and computer programs .
This header indicates the Internet media type of the message content , consisting of a type and subtype , for example Content-Type : text/plain Through the use of the MIME type , MIME allows messages to have parts arranged in a tree structure where the leaf nodes are any non-multipart content type and the non-leaf nodes are any of a variety of MIME types .
The RFC and the IANA 's list of transfer encodings define the values shown below , which are not case sensitive .
This restriction does not apply to other uses of MIME such as Web Services with MIME attachments or MTOM Since RFC 2822 , conforming message header names and values should be ASCII characters ; values that contain non-ASCII data should use the MIME encoded-word syntax ( RFC 2047 ) instead of a literal string .
Additional subtypes , such as signed and form-data , have since been separately defined in other RFCs .
Multipart/mixed is used for sending files with different `` Content-Type '' headers inline ( or as attachments ) .
The multipart/alternative subtype indicates that each part is an `` alternative '' version of the same ( or similar ) content , each in a different format denoted by MIME `` Content-Type '' header .
MIME is HTTP , which requires that data be transmitted in the context of email-like messages even though the data might not ( and usually does n't ) actually have anything to do with email .
Before the final siege of Constantinople Mehmed ordered Ottoman troops to attack the Morea , the despots , Demetrios Palaiologos and Thomas Palaiologos , brothers of the last emperor , failed to send any aid .
After more years of incompetent rule by the despots , their failure to pay their annual tribute to the Sultan , and finally their own revolt against Ottoman rule , Mehmed came into the Morea in May 1460 .
The royal city of Bobovac soon fell , leaving Stephen Tomašević to retreat to Jajce and later to Ključ .
Initially Karamanids centered around the modern provinces of Karaman and Konya , was the most important power in Anatolia .
Although Mehmed II tried to continue Mehmed II struggle , Mehmed II learned that Mehmed II family members were transferred to İstanbul by Gedik Ahmet Pasha and Mehmed II finally gave up .
This resulted in a enduring struggle between different Wallachian rulers backed by Hungarians , Ottomans and Stephebn .
Soon they were also confronted with starvation , a situation made worse by an outbreak of the plague and the Ottoman army returned to Ottoman lands .
Mehmed II could n't subjugate Albania and Skanderbeg while the latter was alive , even though twice ( 1466 and 1467 ) Mehmed II led the Ottoman armies Mehmed II against Krujë .
On Mehmed II return in early 1467 , Mehmed II forces sallied from the highlands , defeated Ballaban Pasha and lifted the siege of the fortress of Croia ( Krujë ) attacked Elbasan but failed to capture it .
After Skanderbeg died , the final act of Mehmed II Albanian campaigns was the troublesome siege of Shkodra in 1478-9 , the final siege that Mehmed II led personally and of which early Ottoman chronicler Aşıkpaşazade ( 1400 -- 81 ) wrote , `` All the conquests of Sultan Mehmed were fulfilled with the seizure of Shkodra '' .
The Crimean Tatars controlled the steppes that stretched from the Kuban and to the Dniester River , however , they were unable to take control over the commercial Genoese towns called Gazaria ( Genoese colonies ) .
Mehmed issued orders across Mehmed II empire that Muslims , Christians , and Jews should resettle the city ; Mehmed II demanded that five thousand households needed to be transferred to Constantinople by September .
However , many people escaped again from the city , and there were several outbreaks of plague , so that in 1459 Mehmet allowed the deported Greeks to come back to the city .
Franz Babinger in Mehmed II book Mehmed the Conqueror and Mehmed II Time , asserted that Mehmed II was attracted to both women and men , by basing this upon various Byzantine historians such as Doukas , Chalcocondylas .
Mehmed II is also recognized as the first Sultan to codify criminal and constitutional law long before Suleiman the Magnificent and Mehmed II thus established the classical image of the autocratic Ottoman sultan .
Mehmed II many internal administrative and legal reforms put Mehmed II country on the path to prosperity and paved the way for subsequent sultans to focus on expansion into new territories .
Martina Hingis also won nine Grand Slam women 's doubles titles , winning a calendar-year doubles Grand Slam in 1998 , and one Grand Slam mixed doubles title .
In 1998 , Hingis won all four of the Grand Slam women 's doubles titles , only the fourth in women 's tennis history to do so , ( the Australian Open with Mirjana Lučić and the other three events with Novotná ) , and Martina Hingis became only the third woman to simultaneously hold the No. 1 ranking in both singles and doubles .
Later , Hingis and Mary Pierce , Martina Hingis new doubles partner , lost to Lisa Raymond and Rennae Stubbs .
This was Martina Hingis first career Grand Slam mixed doubles title and fifteenth overall ( 5 singles , 9 women 's doubles , 1 mixed doubles ) .
This was Martina Hingis 41st Women 's Tennis Association tour singles title and first in more than four years .
This was the second consecutive year that Martina Hingis had lost to Clijsters in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open and the third time in the last five Grand Slam tournaments that Clijsters had eliminated Martina Hingis in the quarterfinals .
Hingis often hit the ball extremely early by standing close to the baseline ( or inside it ) in order to take reaction time away from Martina Hingis opponent because Martina Hingis did not have sufficient power to hit winners past Martina Hingis opponents .
Mass ( so long as the type and definition of mass is agreed upon ) is a conserved quantity over time .
For a single particle , this quantity is the rest mass ; for a system of bound or unbound particles , this quantity is the invariant mass .
These four objects ( later named the Galilean moons in honor of their discoverer ) were the first celestial bodies observed to orbit something other than the Earth or Sun .
It is unclear if these were just hypothetical experiments used to illustrate a concept , or if Mass were real experiments performed by Galileo , but the results obtained from these experiments were both realistic and compelling .
In support of this conclusion , Galileo had advanced the following theoretical argument : He asked if two bodies of different masses and different rates of fall are tied by a string , does the combined system fall faster because Mass is now more massive , or does the lighter body in Mass slower fall hold back the heavier body ?
Galileo had shown that objects in free fall under the influence of the Earth 's gravitational field have a constant acceleration , and Galileo 's contemporary , Johannes Kepler , had shown that the planets follow elliptical paths under the influence of the Sun 's gravitational mass .
However , the relationship between Galileo 's gravitational field and Kepler 's gravitational mass was n't comprehended during Galileo 's lifetime .
In a correspondence of 1679 -- 1680 between Robert Hooke and Isaac Newton , Hooke conjectures that gravitational forces might decrease according to the double of the distance between the two bodies .
By finding the exact relationship between a body 's gravitational mass and Mass gravitational field , Newton provided a second method for measuring gravitational mass .
Newton 's cannonball was a thought experiment used to bridge the gap between Galileo 's gravitational acceleration and Kepler 's elliptical orbits .
`` For a stone projected is by the pressure of Mass own weight forced out of the rectilinear path , which by the projection alone Mass should have pursued , and made to describe a curve line in the air ; and through that crooked way is at last brought down to the ground .
Newton 's cannonball illustrated the relationship between the Earth 's gravitational mass and Mass gravitational field ; however , a number of other ambiguities still remained .
And if one were to collect an immense number of objects , the resulting sphere would probably be too large to construct on the surface of the Earth , and too expensive to construct in space .
However , in the resulting theory , gravitation is not a force and thus not subject to Newton 's third law , so `` the equality of inertial and active gravitational mass ... remains as puzzling as ever '' .
According to Newton 's second law , we say that a body has a mass m if , at any instant of time , it obeys the equation of motion where F is the resultant force acting on the body and a is the acceleration of the body 's centre of mass .
We isolate the two objects from all other physical influences , so that the only forces present are the force exerted on X by Y , which we denote FXY , and the force exerted on Y by X , which we denote FYX .
If the only force acting on the object comes from a gravitational field g , combining Newton 's second law and the gravitational law yields the acceleration This says that the ratio of gravitational to inertial mass of any object is equal to some constant K if and only if all objects fall at the same rate in a given gravitational field .
A stronger version of the equivalence principle , known as the Einstein equivalence principle or the strong equivalence principle , lies at the heart of the general theory of relativity .
Einstein 's equivalence principle states that within sufficiently small regions of space-time , it is impossible to distinguish between a uniform acceleration and a uniform gravitational field .
However , the more general invariant mass ( calculated with a more complicated formula ) may also be applied to systems of particles in relative motion , and because of this , is usually reserved for systems which consist of widely separated high-energy particles .
In this case , `` closure '' implies that an idealized boundary is drawn around the system , and no mass/energy is allowed across Mass .
In bound systems , the binding energy must ( often ) be subtracted from the mass of the unbound system , simply because this energy has mass , and this mass is subtracted from the system when Mass is given off , at the time Mass is bound .
A familiar example is the binding energy of atomic nuclei , which appears as other types of energy ( such as gamma rays ) when the nuclei are formed , and ( after being given off ) results in nuclides which have less mass than the free particles ( nucleons ) of which Mass are composed .
The term relativistic mass is also used , and this is the total quantity of energy in a body or system ( divided by c2 ) .
The relativistic mass ( of a body or system of bodies ) includes a contribution from the kinetic energy of the body , and is larger the faster the body moves , so unlike the invariant mass , the relativistic mass depends on the observer 's frame of reference .
In hit-and-run operations , especially against superior numbers and forces , the Ambush force will begin disengaging even before the firefight has been won .
In the past , accepted protocol was to check bodies for intelligence , take prisoners , and ` treat ' any wounded enemy .
Therefore -- and this has been proven by the experience of war -- the only likely method of survival is withdrawal from the killing zone `` the way you came in '' .
Units on foot should have a point man some way ahead of the main body , and , if possible , a rearguard as well .
The dual circulation period -- when both the Finnish markka and the euro had legal tender status -- ended on 28 February 2002 .
The gold standard was abolished in 1940 , and Finnish markka suffered heavy inflation during the war years .
The value of Finnish markka was pegged to the dollar at 320 mk / $ , which became 3.20 new mk / $ in 1963 and devalued to 4.20 mk / $ in 1967 .
The monetary policy called `` strong markka policy '' ( vahvan markan politiikka ) was a characteristic feature of the 1980s and early 1990s .
As a result , by some opinions years overdue , the artificial fixed exchange rate was abandoned and Finnish markka was floated .
Both `` markka '' and `` penni '' are similar to words used in Germany for that country 's former currency , based on the same roots as the German Mark and pfennig .
A popular joke at the time was to cover Paasikivi 's face except for his ear and back of the head on the 10 markkaa note , ending up with something resembling a mouse , said to be the only animal illustration in the entire series .
The fact that these men and women were depicted nude caused a minor controversy at the time .
The primary decay mode before the most abundant stable isotope , 55Mn , is electron capture and the primary mode after is beta decay .
Compounds with oxidation states +5 ( blue ) and +6 ( green ) are strong oxidizing agents and are vulnerable to disproportionation .
The unlikeliness of such a transition is seen in the uniformly pale and almost colorless nature of Mn ( II ) compounds relative to other oxidation states of manganese .
The +3 oxidation state is known in compounds like manganese ( III ) acetate , but these are quite powerful oxidizing agents and also prone to disproportionation in solution to manganese ( II ) and manganese ( IV ) .
Solid compounds of manganese ( III ) are characterized by their preference for distorted octahedral coordination due to the Jahn-Teller effect and Manganese strong purple-red color .
Potassium permanganate , also called Condy 's crystals , is a commonly used laboratory reagent because of Manganese oxidizing properties and finds use as a topical medicine ( for example , in the treatment of fish diseases ) .
Ignatius Gottfried Kaim ( 1770 ) and Johann Glauber ( 17th century ) discovered that manganese dioxide could be converted to permanganate , a useful laboratory reagent .
Until the introduction of the nickel-cadmium battery and lithium-containing batteries , most batteries contained manganese .
The zinc-carbon battery and the alkaline battery normally use industrially produced manganese dioxide , because natural occurring manganese dioxide contains impurities .
The corrosion-resistant aluminium alloys 3004 and 3104 with a manganese content of 0.8 to 1.5 % are the alloys used for most of the beverage cans .
Since 2000 , dollar coins , for example the Sacagawea dollar and the Presidential $ 1 coins , are made from a brass containing 7 % of manganese with a pure copper core .
In 2005 , a study suggested a possible link between manganese inhalation and central nervous system toxicity in rats .
The use of such fuels directly or in mixture with non-reformed distillates is universal in developed countries ( EU , Japan , etc. ) .
More recently , a study of 10-year-old children in Bangladesh showed a relationship between WMn concentration in well water and diminished IQ scores .
A third study conducted in Quebec examined school children between the ages of 6 and 15 living in homes that received water from a well containing 610 µg Mn/L ; controls lived in homes that received water from a 160 µg Mn/L well .
Molybdenum readily forms hard , stable carbides in alloys , and for this reason most of world production of the element ( about 80 % ) is in making many types of steel alloys , including high strength alloys and superalloys .
Molybdenum is the 54th most abundant element in the Earth 's crust and Molybdenum in the oceans , with an average of 10 parts per billion ; it is the 42nd most abundant element in the Universe .
Though molybdenum is found in such minerals as wulfenite ( PbMoO4 ) and powellite ( CaMoO4 ) , the main commercial source of molybdenum is molybdenite ( MoS2 ) .
By continent , 93 % of world molybdenum production is about evenly split between North America , South America ( mainly in Chile ) , and China .
Europe and the rest of Asia ( mostly Armenia , Russia , Iran and Mongolia ) produce the remainder .
The ability of molybdenum to withstand extreme temperatures without significantly expanding or softening makes Molybdenum useful in applications that involve intense heat , including the manufacture of armor , aircraft parts , electrical contacts , industrial motors and filaments .
Despite such small portions , more than 43,000 tonnes of molybdenum are used as an alloying agent each year in stainless steels , tool steels , cast irons and high-temperature superalloys .
An example is the 'M ' series of high-speed steels such as M2 , M4 and M42 as substitution for the ` T ' steel series , which contain tungsten .
TZM ( Mo ( ~ 99 % ) , Ti ( ~ 0.5 % ) , Zr ( ~ 0.08 % ) and some C ) is a corrosion-resisting molybdenum superalloy that resists molten fluoride salts at temperatures above 1300C .
For example , because of the corrosion resistance against molten zinc , both pure molybdenum and the molybdenum/tungsten alloy ( 70 % / 30 % ) are used for piping , stirrers and pump impellers which come into contact with molten zinc .
Though molybdenum forms compounds with various organic molecules , including carbohydrates and amino acids , Molybdenum is transported throughout the human body as MoO42 − .
In some animals , and in humans , the oxidation of xanthine to uric acid , a process of purine catabolism , is catalyzed by xanthine oxidase , a molybdenum-containing enzyme .
In animals and plants a tricyclic compound called molybdopterin ( which , despite the name , contains no molybdenum ) is reacted with molybdate to form a complete molybdenum-containing cofactor called molybdenum cofactor .
Save for the phylogenetically-ancient molybdenum nitrogenases discussed above , which fix nitrogen in some bacteria and cyanobacteria , all molybdenum-using enzymes so far identified in nature use the molybdenum cofactor .
Pork , lamb , and beef liver each have approximately 1.5 parts per million of molybdenum .
Copper reduction or deficiency can also be deliberately induced for therapeutic purposes by the compound ammonium tetrathiomolybdate , in which the bright red anion tetrathiomolybdate is the copper-chelating agent .
Another rare class of minerals ( primarily biological in origin ) include the mineral liquid crystals that are crystalline and liquid at the same time .
Therefore , in order to avoid any confusion between these fairly chemically different families , and taking into account that a large number of these liquid crystals occur naturally in nature , we think that the use of the old fashioned but adequate `` mineral '' adjective taken sensus largo is more specific that an alternative such as `` purely inorganic '' , to name this subclass of the inorganic liquid crystals family .
In rocks , some mineral species and groups are much more abundant than others ; these are termed the rock-forming minerals .
The major examples of these are quartz , the feldspars , the micas , the amphiboles , the pyroxenes , the olivines , and calcite ; except the last one , all of the minerals are silicates .
These eight elements , summing to over 98 % of the crust by weight , are , in order of decreasing abundance : oxygen , silicon , aluminium , iron , magnesium , calcium , sodium and potassium .
Feldspars are all framework silicates , which have a silicon-oxygen ratio of 2:1 , and the space for other elements is given by the substitution of Si4 + by Al3 + to give a base unit of AlSi3O8 - ; without the substitution , the formula would be charge-balanced as SiO2 , giving quartz .
This crystal structure is based on regular internal atomic or ionic arrangement that is often expressed in the geometric form that the crystal takes .
Common habits include acicular , which described needlelike crystals like in natrolite , bladed , dendritic ( tree-pattern , common in native copper ) , equant , which is typical of garnet , prismatic ( elongated in one direction ) , and tabular , which differs from bladed habit in that the former is platy whereas the latter has a defined elongation .
The streak of a mineral refers to the colour of a mineral in powdered form , which may or may not be identical to Mineral body colour .
Minerals that often display parting include the pyroxenes , hematite , magnetite , and corundum .
Defined as the quotient of the mass of the sample and difference between the weight of the sample in air and Mineral corresponding weight in water , specific gravity is a unitless ratio .
Mineral forming minerals -- typically silicates or occasionally carbonates -- have a specific gravity of 2.5 -- 3.5 .
A variation in chemistry ( and consequently , mineral class ) correlates to a change in specific gravity .
For example , hematite , Fe2O3 , has a specific gravity of 5.26 while galena , PbS , has a specific gravity of 7.2 -- 7.6 , which is a result of their high iron and lead content , respectively .
In the latter case , the decay of a radioactive element damages the mineral crystal ; the result , termed a radioactive halo or pleochroic halo , is observable by various techniques , such as thin-section petrography .
There are two major structural styles observed in non-silicates : close-packing and silicate-like linked tetrahedra .
In the latter case , the mineral no longer has a silicate structure , but that of that of rutile ( TiO2 ) , and Mineral associated group , which are simple oxides .
Orthosilicates ( or nesosilicates ) have no linking of polyhedra , thus tetrahedra share no corners .
Framework silicates , or tectosilicates , have tetrahedra that share all four corners .
Mineral counterpart , β-quartz , is present only at high temperatures and pressures ( changes to α-quartz below 573 ° C at 1 bar ) .
The alkali feldspars are most commonly in a series between potassium-rich orthoclase and sodium-rich albite ; in the case of plagioclase , the most common series ranges from albite to calcium-rich anorthite .
The presence of iron as Fe3 + and Fe2 + helps understand oxygen fugacity , which in turn is a significant factor in petrogenesis .
Other examples of sorosilicates include lawsonite , a metamorphic mineral forming in the blueschist facies ( subduction zone setting with low temperature and high pressure ) , vesuvianite , which takes up a significant amount of calcium in Mineral chemical structure .
The gold group , with a cubic close-packed structure , includes metals such as gold , silver , and copper .
The halide minerals are compounds where a halogen ( fluorine , chlorine , iodine , and bromine ) is the main anion .
Sulfate minerals commonly form as evaporites , where they precipitate out of evaporating saline waters ; alternative , sulfates can also be found in hydrothermal vein systems associated with sulfides , or as oxidation products of sulfides .
Mineral forms as an evaporite , and is associated other evaporites such as calcite and halite ; if Mineral incorporates sand grains as Mineral crystallizes , gypsum can form desert roses .
Examples include barite ( BaSO4 ) , celestine ( SrSO4 ) , and anglesite ( PbSO4 ) ; anhydrite is not part of the barite group , as the smaller Ca2 + is only in eight-fold coordination .
The most common phosphate is the apatite group ; common species within this group are fluorapatite ( Ca5 ( PO4 ) 3F ) , chlorapatite ( Ca5 ( PO4 ) 3Cl ) and hydroxylapatite ( Ca5 ( PO4 ) 3 ( OH ) ) .
The relatively abundant monazite group has a general structure of ATO4 , where T is phosphorus or arsenic , and A is often a rare-earth element ( REE ) .
While hydrated calcium oxalate can be found in coal seams and other sedimentary deposits involving organic matter , the hydrothermal occurrence is not considered to be related to biological activity .
More generally in construction , specifically the dimension stone trade , Marble is used for any crystalline calcitic rock ( and some non-calcitic rocks ) useful as building stone .
For comparison , 2005 crushed marble production was 7.76 million tons valued at $ 58.7 million , of which 4.8 million tons was finely ground calcium carbonate and the rest was construction aggregate .
Manufacturing Consent : Noam Chomsky and the Media ( 1992 ) is a documentary film that explores the political life and ideas of Noam Chomsky , a linguist , intellectual , and political activist .
Created by two Canadian filmmakers , Mark Achbar and Peter Wintonick , Manufacturing Consent: Noam Chomsky and the Media expands on the ideas of Chomsky 's earlier book , , which he co-wrote with Edward S. Herman .
A centerpiece of Manufacturing Consent: Noam Chomsky and the Media is a long examination of the history of The New York Times coverage of the Indonesian occupation of East Timor , which Chomsky says exemplifies the media 's unwillingness to criticize an ally of the elite .
In 1180 , with the trial of Henry the Lion , Otto I Wittelsbach became Duke of Bavaria and Munich was handed over to the Bishop of Freising .
During the 16th century Munich was a centre of the German counter reformation , and also of renaissance arts .
Later Prince Regent Luitpold 's years as regent were marked by tremendous artistic and cultural activity in Munich ( see Franz von Stuck and Der Blaue Reiter ) .
In 1923 Hitler and his supporters , who were then concentrated in Munich , staged the Beer Hall Putsch , an attempt to overthrow the Weimar Republic and seize power .
At Munich official weather station , the highest and lowest temperatures ever measured are 37.1 C˚ , on August 13 , 2003 , and -30.5 C˚ , on January 21 , 1942 .
There is also a small Old Catholic parish and an English-speaking parish of the Episcopal Church in Munich .
This is remarkable because Bavaria -- and particularly southern Bavaria -- has long been a conservative stronghold , with the Christian Social Union winning absolute majorities among the Bavarian electorate in many elections at the communal , state , and federal levels .
Having undergone several extensions , Munich contains also the treasury and the splendid rococo Cuvilliés Theatre .
Especially in Munich suburbs , Munich features a wide and diverse array of modern architecture , although strict culturally sensitive height limitations for buildings have limited the construction of skyscrapers to avoid a loss of views to the distant Bavarian Alps .
Munich oldest park is the Hofgarten , near the Residenz , and dating back to the 16th century .
The Deutsches Museum or German Museum , located on an island in the River Isar , is the largest and one of the oldest science museums in the world .
Several non-centralised museums ( many of those are public collections at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität ) show the expanded state collections of palaeontology , geology , mineralogy , zoology , botany and anthropology .
Alte Pinakothek 's monolithic structure contains a treasure trove of the works of European masters between the 14th and 18th centuries .
Munich always finishes on the first Sunday in October unless the German national holiday on 3 October ( `` Tag der deutschen Einheit '' - Day of German Unity ) is a Monday or Tuesday-then the Oktoberfest remains open for these days .
A Mass ( die Maß ) is a litre of beer , a Radler consists of half beer and half lemonade .
Munich is famous for Munich breweries and the Weissbier ( or Weizenbier , wheat beer ) is a speciality from Bavaria .
Munich has become a spiritual centre already since the times of Emperor Louis IV when philosophers like Michael of Cesena , Marsilius of Padua and William of Ockham were protected at the emperor 's court .
Munich topped the ranking of the magazine `` Capital '' in February 2005 for the economic prospects between 2002 and 2011 in sixty German cities .
The headquarters of the German branch of Random House , the world 's largest publishing house , and of Burda publishing group are also in Munich .
Franz Josef Strauss International Airport ( IATA : MUC , ICAO : EDDM ) is the second-largest airport in Germany and seventh-largest in Europe after London Heathrow , Paris Charle de Gaulle , Frankfurt , Amsterdam , Madrid and Istanbul Atatürk .
While certain streets are discontinuous for cars , they connect to a network of pedestrian and bike paths which permeate the entire centre .
Several smaller traditional Bavarian towns and cities like Dachau , Freising , Erding , Starnberg , Landshut and Moosburg are today part of the Greater Munich Region , formed by Munich and the surrounding districts , making up the Munich Metropolitan Region , which has a population of about 4.5 million people .
Millsaps College offers research partnerships for undergraduate students , and a variety of study abroad programs .
Between the Christian Center and Murrah Hall , which houses the Else School of Management , is the tomb of Major Millsaps and the `` M '' Bench , erected by the classes of 1926 , 1927 , and 1928 .
Lake Mälaren ( historically occasionally referred to as Lake Malar in English ) is the third-largest lake in Sweden , after Lakes Vänern and Vättern .
By the end of the last ice age about 11,000 years ago , much of northern Europe and North America was covered by ice sheets up to 3 km thick .
The decline of Birka and the subsequent foundation of Stockholm at the choke point of Riddarfjärden were in part due to the post-glacial rebound changing the topography of the Mälaren basin .
The Portuguese administered the city under Chinese authority and sovereignty until 1887 , when Macau became a colony of the Portuguese empire .
Macau is said that when the Portuguese sailors landed at the coast just outside the temple and asked the name of the place , the natives replied '' '' .
The Portuguese repulsed their attack and the Dutch never tried to conquer Macau again .
Portugal was also obliged `` never to alienate Macau without previous agreement with China '' , therefore ensuring that negotiation between Portugal and France ( regarding a possible exchange of Macau and Portuguese Guinea with the French Congo ) or with other countries would not go forward -- so that the British commercial interests would be secured ; Macau officially became a territory under Portuguese administration .
Making only a few provisions concerning tariff principles and matters relating to business affairs , the new treaty did not alter the sovereignty of Macau and Portuguese government of Macau remained unchanged .
After the establishment of the People 's Republic of China in 1949 , the Beijing government declared the Sino-Portuguese Treaty of Amity and Commerce invalid as an `` unequal treaty '' imposed by foreigners on China .
Influenced by the Cultural Revolution in mainland China and by general dissatisfaction with Portuguese government , riots broke out in Macau in 1966 .
Edmund Ho Hau Wah , a community leader and former banker , was the first chief executive of Macau , replacing General Vasco Rocha Vieira at midnight on 20 December 1999 .
The main border crossing between Macau and China is known as the Portas do Cerco ( Barrier Gate ) on the Macau side , and the Gongbei Port of Entry on the Zhuhai side .
Macau has a humid subtropical climate ( Köppen Cwa ) , with average relative humidity between 75 % and 90 % .
Autumn in Macau , from October to November , is sunny and still pleasantly warm with low humidity .
Together with the liberalization of Macau gaming industry in 2001 that induces significant investment inflows , the average growth rate of the economy between 2001 and 2006 was approximately 13.1 % annually .
In 1935 , when China and Hong Kong abandoned the silver standard , the Hong Kong dollar was pegged to sterling at the fixed rate of 1 shilling and 3 pence , whereas the pataca was pegged to the Portuguese escudo at a sterling equivalent rate of only 1 shilling .
The growth of population in Macau mainly relies on immigrants from mainland China and the influx of overseas workers since Macau birth rate is one of the lowest in the world .
Most Chinese in Macau are profoundly influenced by their own tradition and culture , of which most take part in Chinese folk religion , of which the faiths of Taoism , Buddhism and Confucianism , form an integral part .
The illiterates are mainly among the senior residents aged 65 or above ; the younger generation , for example the population aged 15 -- 29 , has a literacy rate of above 99 % .
In 2006 , the Programme for International Student Assessment , a worldwide test of 15-year-old schoolchildren 's scholastic performance coordinated by OECD , ranked Macau as the fifth and sixth in science and problem solving respectively .
The Procession of the Passion of Our Lord is a well-known Catholic rite and journey , which travels from Saint Austin 's Church to the Cathedral , also taking place in February .
Pork chop bun , ginger milk and Portuguese-style egg tart are also very popular in Macau .
Self administration was not achieved until the 1840s and History of Macau was subsequently transitioned into a Portuguese territory when Qing signed the Sino-Portuguese Treaty of Peking , until History of Macau handover to China in 1999 .
The Ming Court was also influenced by reports of misbehaviour of Portuguese elsewhere in China , and by the deposed Sultan of Malacca seeking Chinese assistance to drive the Portuguese out of Malacca .
When Portugal conquered Malacca in 1511 and committed atrocities against the Malay Sultanate , the Chinese responded with violent force against Portugal .
The Malaccan Sultan , based in Bintan after fleeing Malacca , sent a message to the Chinese , which combined with Portuguese banditry and violent activity in China , led the Chinese authorities to execute 23 Portuguese and torture the rest of them in jails .
After the Portuguese set up posts for trading in China and committed piratical activities and raids in China , the Chinese responded with the complete extermination of the Portuguese in Ningbo and Quanzhou Pires , a Portuguese trade envoy , was among those who died in the Chinese dungeons .
Good relations between the Portuguese and Chinese Ming Dynasty resumed in the 1540s , when Portuguese aided China in eliminating coastal pirates .
Following a ship wreck in 1535 , Portuguese traders were allowed to anchor ships in Macau 's harbours , and the right to carry out trading activities , though not the right to stay onshore .
After the Portuguese raided and pillaged villages around the trading posts in those two cities , the Emperor ruled that all Portuguese encountered everywhere should be killed on the spot .
The Chinese had massacred them after the Portuguese engaged in pillaging and murder in Chinese villages .
After Portuguese permanent settlement in History of Macau , both Chinese and Portuguese merchants flocked to History of Macau , although the Portuguese were never numerous ( numbering just 900 in 1583 and only 1,200 out of 26,000 in 1640 ) .
In 1587 , Philip promoted History of Macau from `` Settlement or Port of the Name of God '' to `` City of the Name of God '' ( Cidade do Nome de Deus de Macau ) .
Later named the sakoku period , this meant that no Japanese were allowed to leave the country ( or return if they were living abroad ) , and no foreign ship was allowed to dock in a Japanese port .
The Templo de Kun Iam was the site where , on 3 July 1844 , the treaty of Wangxia ( named after the village of Mong Ha where the temple was located ) was signed by representatives of the United States and China .
Riots broke out in 1966 during communist Cultural Revolution , when local Chinese and the History of Macau authority clashed , the most serious one being the so-called 12-3 incident .
The latter committed the Government to compensate local Chinese community leaders with as much as 2 million Macau Patacas and to prohibit all Kuomintang activities in History of Macau .
After four rounds of talks , `` the Joint Declaration of the Government of the People 's Republic of China and the Government of the Republic of Portugal on the Question of History of Macau '' was officially signed in April 1987 .
The two sides exchanged instruments of ratification on 15 January 1988 and the Joint Declaration entered into force .
Although offered control of History of Macau in the 1970s , the Chinese deemed the time `` not yet ripe '' and preferred to wait until December 1999 -- the very end of the millennium , two years after the Hong Kong handover -- to close this chapter of history .
Geographic coordinates : total : 29.7 km ² land : 29.7 km ² water : 0 km ² total : 0.34 km border city : Zhuhai , Guangdong Province 0.34 km Coastline : 40 km Maritime claims : not specified Location : Eastern Asia , bordering the South China Sea and China Terrain : generally flatlowest point : South China Sea 0 m highest point : Coloane Alto 174 m Macau has generally flat terrain resulting from extensive land reclamation , but numerous steep hills mark the original natural land mass .
The West Ocean Watching Hill , a tranquil scenic spot , is noted for the cathedral and the bishop 's mansion on Geography of Macau top .
These areas cover an area east of the Outer Harbour Ferry Terminal , an area south of Avenida Sun Yat Sen , and the north side of Taipa Island .
English and Portuguese are spoken as a first language by 1.5 % and 0.6 % respectively .
Those of wholly or partly Portuguese ethnicity totalled 8,106 , up slightly by 333 compared with 2001 ; Demographics of Macau proportion to the total decreased by 0.3 percentage point to 1.5 % .
Politics of Macau takes place in a framework of a political system dominated by the People 's Republic of China , an own legislature , the Chief Executive as the head of government , and of a multi-party system .
Included are three judges who serve on the Macau SAR 's highest court , the Court of Final Appeal ( CFA ) : 39-year-old Sam Hou Fai ( who will be chief justice ) , 32-year-old Chu Kin , and the 46-year-old Viriato Manuel Pinhiero de Lima .
Moreover , the currency board , Monetary Authority of Macao ( AMCM ) , has a statutory obligation to issue and redeem pataca on demand against Hong Kong dollar at a fixed exchange rate and without limit .
Numerous other hotel casinos , including Galaxy Cotai Megaresort and Ponte 16 , are also to be opened in near future .
Modern industries , however , did not take off until the 1970s when the textiles and garments industry was rising rapidly , while other light industries such as plastics , electronics , toys , and artificial flowers also experienced respectable growth .
Owing to Macau 's population ( circa 500,000 ) and Telecommunications in Macau small market , only a few options are available for the local people on media .
The trishaw , a hybrid of the tricycle and the rickshaw , is a unique mode of transport in Macau , though Transport in Macau is mainly for sightseeing purposes but Transport in Macau were a type of mainly used transportation system before 1970s because of their cheap price .
Cotai Jet also operates services between Taipa Temporary Ferry Terminal and the Hong Kong -- Macau Ferry Terminal , Hong Kong .
Apart from the sea routes there are also regular scheduled helicopter services between Hong Kong and Macau , which are operated by Heli Express .
A few years ago a new sea-crossing service was launched by TurboJET which travels between the Hong Kong International Airport and Macau .
This differs from the above Macau-Hong Kong route since travelers who arrive in Hong Kong by air do not have to go through Hong Kong immigration 's passport control and can board a direct ferry to Macau through a special transfer terminal within the airport .
On the return trip , travelers can directly reach the Hong Kong International Airport by ferry ( a dedicated check-in desk for the service is available at the Hong Kong-Macau Ferry Terminal ) and arrive at the airport without going through Hong Kong immigration 's passport control , though airline check-in has to be done within the airport prior to boarding a plane .
A new ferry terminal , which is adjacent to the Macau International Airport , is under construction and upon completion some of the passenger traffic by sea will be diverted to the new facility .
From Terminal Marítimo de Passageiros do Porto Interior , ferry services are available between Macau and Wanzai , Zhuhai .
Owing to Transport in Macau relatively low landing fees and the business opportunities brought by the booming gaming industry in Macau , the airport has attracted several Asia 's low-cost carriers such as AirAsia , Viva Macau , Tiger Airways , etc. to establish regular flights between Macau and several major cities in Southeast Asia .
Other traditional carriers , such as the local flag carrier Air Macau , the Taiwanese carriers EVA Air and TransAsia Airways , and even carriers which operate similar routes from Hong Kong , are facing potential challenges from these newcomers .
Although the Basic Law states that the Macau SAR government may `` when necessary '' ask the central government to allow the garrison to assist in maintaining public order or disaster relief , Chief Executive Ho has said that , in keeping with the Basic Law the garrison will play no role in internal security .
Macedonia (region) is a geographical and historical region of the Balkan peninsula in southeastern Europe .
The Roman province of Macedonia (region) consisted of what is today Northern and Central Greece , much of the geographical area of the present-day Republic of Macedonia (region) and southeast Albania .
During medieval and modern times , Macedonia (region) has been known as a Balkan region inhabited by ethnic Greeks , Albanians , Vlachs , Serbs , Bulgarians , Jews , and Turks .
Most present-day inhabitants of Macedonia (region) are Eastern Orthodox Christians , principally of the Greek Orthodox , Bulgarian Orthodox , Serbian Orthodox Churches and Macedonian Orthodox Church .
The Late Neolithic period ( c. 4500 to 3500 BC ) is well represented by both excavated and unexcavated sites throughout the region ( though it should be noted that in Eastern Macedonia levels of this period are still called Middle Neolithic according to the terminology used in the Balkans ) .
Rapid changes in pottery styles , and the discovery of fragments of pottery showing trade with quite distant regions , indicate that society , economy and technology were all changing rapidly .
Prior to the Macedonian ascendancy , parts of southern Macedonia (region) were populated by the Bryges , a Thracian people , while western , ( i.e. , Upper ) Macedonia (region) , was inhabited by Macedonian and Illyrian tribes .
Whilst numerous wars are later recorded between the Illyrian and Macedonian Kingdoms , the Bryges might have co-existed peacefully with the Macedonians .
By 500 BC , the ancient kingdom of Macedon was centered somewhere between the southern slopes of Lower Olympus and the lowest reach of the Haliakmon River .
Although traditional scholarship attributes these changes to large-scale colonizations by Slavic-speaking groups , Macedonia (region) has been proposed that a generalized dissipation of Roman identity might have commenced in the third century , especially among rural provincials who were crippled by harsh taxation and famines .
By the time of Constans II a significant number of the Slavs of Macedonia were captured and transferred to central Asia Minor where they were forced to recognize the authority of the Byzantine emperor and serve in Macedonia (region) ranks .
Although a new theme -- that of `` Macedonia '' -- was subsequently created , Macedonia (region) did not correspond to today 's geographic territory , but one farther east ( centred on Adrianople ) , carved out of the already existing Thracian and Helladic themes .
After the revival of Greek , Serbian , and Bulgarian statehood in the 19th century , the Ottoman lands in Europe that became identified as `` Macedonia (region) '' , were contested by all three governments , leading to the creation in the 1890s and 1900s of rival armed groups who divided their efforts between fighting the Turks and one another .
This included Macedonia (region) , a large part of which was given to Bulgaria , due to Russian pressure and the presence of significant numbers of Bulgarians and adherents to the Bulgarian Exarchate .
Greece , in addition , was in an advantageous position for protecting Macedonia (region) interests through the influence of Patriarchate of Constantinople which traditionally sponsored Greek-language and Greek-culture schools also in villages with few Greeks .
Indeed , belonging to one or another institution could define a person 's national identity .
This often violent attempt to persuade the people that they belonged to one ethnic group or another pushed some people to reject both .
The severe pressure on the peaceful peasants of Macedonia (region) worked against the plans of the Serbians and Bulgarians to make them adopt their ethnic idea and eventually a social divide became apparent .
The British Ambassador in Belgrade in 1927 said : `` At present the unfortunate Macedonian peasant is between the hammer and the anvil .
The rise of the Albanian and the Turkish nationalism after 1908 , however , prompted Greece , Serbia and Bulgaria to bury their differences with regard to Macedonia (region) and to form a joint coalition against the Ottoman Empire in 1912 .
Dissatisfied with the creation of an autonomous Albanian state , which denied her access to the Adriatic , Serbia asked for the suspension of the pre-war division treaty and demanded from Bulgaria greater territorial concessions in Macedonia (region) .
Both Serbia and Greece , as well as Bulgaria , started to prepare for a final war of partition .
In June 1913 , Bulgarian Tsar Ferdinand , without consulting the government , and without any declaration of war , ordered Bulgarian troops to attack the Greek and Serbian troops in Macedonia (region) , initiating the Second Balkan War .
The Second Balkan War , also known as Inter-Ally War , left Bulgaria only with the Struma valley and a small part of Thrace with minor ports at the Aegean sea .
Serbian-ruled Macedonia (region) was incorporated into the Kingdom of Serbs , Croats and Slovenes ( later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia ) in 1918 .
Yugoslav Macedonia (region) was subsequently subjected to an intense process of `` Serbianization '' during the 1920s and 1930s .
When the German forces occupied Macedonia (region) , most of Yugoslav Macedonia (region) and part of Aegean Macedonia were transferred for administration to Bulgaria .
After this civil war , a large number of former ELAS fighters who took refuge in communist Bulgaria and Yugoslavia and described themselves as `` ethnic Macedonians '' were prohibited from reestablishing to their former estates by the Greek authorities .
The retreat of the Ottoman army from Macedonia (region) succeeded the desperate effort of the Greek and Bulgarian forces to reach the city of Thessalonica , the `` single prize of the first Balkan War '' for whose status no prior agreements were done .
Greece almost doubled Macedonia (region) territory and population size and Macedonia (region) northern frontiers remain today , more or less the same since the Balkan Wars .
The establishment of the ` Kingdom of Serbians , Croats and Slovenes ' in 1918 , which in 1929 was renamed ` Yugoslavia ' ( South Slavia ) predicted no special regime for Skopje neither recognized any Macedonian national identity .
Third of all , Tito sought to justify future Yugoslav claims towards the rest of Macedonia (region) ( Pirin and Aegean ) , in the name of the `` liberation '' of Macedonia (region) .
Tito 's designs on Macedonia (region) were asserted as early as August 1944 , when in a proclamation he claimed that his goal was to reunify `` all parts of Macedonia (region) , divided in 1912 and 1913 by Balkan imperialists '' .
Although there was some liberalization between 1959 and 1967 , the Greek military dictatorship re-imposed harsh restrictions .
Macedonia (region) had been agreed that Pirin Macedonia would join Yugoslav Macedonia and for this reason the population declared itself `` Macedonian '' in the 1946 census .
Attempts of Macedonian historians after the 1940s to claim a number of prominent figures of the 19th century Bulgarian cultural revival and armed resistance movement as Macedonians has caused ever since a bitter resentment in Sofia .
The publication in the Republic of Macedonia (region) of the folk song collections ` Bulgarian Folk Songs ' by the Miladinov Brothers and ` Songs of the Macedonian Bulgarians ' by Serbian archaeologist Verkovic under the `` politically correct '' titles ` Collection ' and ` Macedonian Folk Songs ' are some of the examples quoted by the Bulgarians .
The issue has soured the relations of Bulgaria with former Yugoslavia and later with the Republic of Macedonia (region) for decades .
A controversy exists in regard to whether or not any parts of the historic region of Macedonia are incorporated in the present-day Republic of Macedonia (region) , as very little if any of the ancient Macedonian kingdom is .
They first arrived in the late 6th and early 7th centuries AD when Slavic-speaking populations overturned Macedonia (region) Greek ethnic composition .
The status of the Republic of Macedonia (region) became a heated political issue in Greece where demonstrations took place in Athens while one million Macedonian Greeks took to the streets in Thessaloniki in 1992 , under the slogan : `` Macedonia (region) is Greek '' , referring to the name and ancient history of Macedonia (region) , not posing a territorial claim against their northern neighbor .
The United Nations recommended recognition of the `` Republic of Macedonia (region) '' under the temporary name of the `` former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (region) '' ( or FYROM for short ) , which would be used internationally while the country continued to use `` Republic of Macedonia (region) '' as its constitutional name .
Later , the signing of the Interim accord between Greece and the Republic of Macedonia (region) marked the increased cooperation between the two neighboring states .
The blockade had a political cost for Greece , as there was little understanding or sympathy for the country 's position , and exasperation over what was seen as Greek obstructionism from some of Macedonia (region) European Union partners .
This was for the `` Republic of Macedonia (region) '' and Greece to enter into an `` interim agreement '' in which the Republic of Macedonia (region) agreed to remove any implied territorial claims to the greater Macedonia (region) from its constitution and to drop the Vergina Sun from its flag .
The Greek government have linked progress on this issue to the Republic of Macedonia (region) accession to the European Union and NATO ( for more on this , see Accession of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (region) to the European Union ) .
In 1995 , the two countries signed an agreement by which Macedonia (region) agreed to use the provisional reference in international organizations , while Greece pledged not to block Macedonia (region) integration into the European Union and NATO .
After 1958 when the pressure from Moskow decreased , Sofia turned back to the view that the separate Macedonian language did not exist and that the Macedonians in Blagoevgrad province ( Pirin Macedonia ) were actually Bulgarians .
In November the European Parliament Rapporteur on Bulgaria and the Enlargement Commissioner of the European Commission urged the government to register the organization .
As of May 2004 , some 14,000 Macedonians had applied for a Bulgarian citizenship on the grounds of Bulgarian origin and 4,000 of them had already received their Bulgarian passports .
According to the official Bulgarian sources , in the period between 2000 to 2006 some 30 000 Macedonian citizens applied for Bulgarian citizenship , attracted by the Bulgaria 's recent positive development and the opportunity to get European Union passports after Bulgaria joined EU on the beginning of 2007 .
The rules governing good neighbourly relations agreed between Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia (region) were set in the reaffirmed by a joint memorandum signed on 22 January 2008 in Sofia .
Macedonia (region) is a Balkan region inhabited by ethnic Greeks , Albanians , Vlachs , Serbs , Bulgarians , Jews , and Turks .
Macedonia (region) is successive layers of debris including large numbers of figurines , bulls ' skulls , and pottery , including several rare and unusual shapes .
By the time of Constans II ( who also organized campaigns against the Slavs ) , the significant number of the Slavs of Macedonia were captured and transferred to central Asia Minor where they were forced to recognize the authority of the Byzantine emperor and serve in History of the Republic of Macedonia ranks .
The whole of Macedonia was incorporated into the Byzantine Empire as Theme of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Patriarchate was reduced in rank to an archbishopric .
During the Ottoman rule , Skopje and Monastir ( Bitola ) were capitals of separate Ottoman provinces ( eyalets ) .
The territory of Vardar Banovina had Skopje as History of the Republic of Macedonia capital and History of the Republic of Macedonia included what eventually became the modern Republic of Macedonia .
After World War I ( 1914 -- 1918 ) the Slavs in Serbian ( Vardar ) Macedonia were regarded as southern Serbs and the language they spoke a southern Serbian dialect .
The policy of Serbianization in the 1920s and 1930s clashed with pro-Bulgarian sentiment stirred by Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization ( IMRO ) detachments infiltrating from Bulgaria , whereas local communists favoured the path of self-determination .
This further angered both Greece and Bulgaria , because of the possible territorial claims of the new states to the Greek and Bulgarian parts of the region of Macedonia received after the Balkan Wars .
A permanent agreement between Greece and the Republic of Macedonia 's name has not yet been reached .
The border was made after World War II , between SR Macedonia and SR Serbia .
Geography of the Republic of Macedonia crosses the lake , leaving approximately one-third in Albania , traverses a high ridge and `` meets '' the tripoint with Greece in Lake Prespa .
The terrain is mostly rugged , located between the Šar Mountains and Osogovo , which frame the valley of the Vardar river .
sq. Vardar , the largest river in this basin , drains 80 % of the territory or 20,459 km .
Geography of the Republic of Macedonia passes through Gostivar , Skopje and into Veles , crosses the Greek border near Gevgelija , Polykastro and Axioupoli , before emptying into the Aegean Sea in Central Macedonia west of Thessaloniki in northern Greece .
Lake Ohrid ( Macedonian : Охридско Езеро , Ohridsko Ezero ) straddles the mountainous border between the southwestern Republic of Macedonia and eastern Albania .
The Great Prespa Lake ( Macedonian : Преспанско Езеро , Prespansko Ezero ) is divided between Albania , Greece and the Republic of Macedonia .
The biggest island in the Great Prespa Lake , on the Republic of Macedonia 's side , is called Golem Grad ( `` Large Fortress '' ) , or Snake Island .
Geography of the Republic of Macedonia is shared between the Republic of Macedonia ( 27.1 km ² ) and Greece ( 15.6 km ² ) .
Geography of the Republic of Macedonia speak the Macedonian language and most are Orthodox Christians .
The Turks , who comprise nearly 4 % of the population , are mostly scattered , though they form a majority in two municipalities ( Plasnica and Centar Župa ) .
The Romani make up 2.7 % of the population and are also concentrated throughout Macedonia , while the Serbs , who form just under 2 % of the total population , live mostly in the north of Geography of the Republic of Macedonia .
Until 1996 , there were 123 municipalities , but several laws aimed at increasing the rights of minorities decreased the number of municipalities and modified their overall role .
Geography of the Republic of Macedonia is the center of the Balkans , between Belgrade and Athens , Tirana and Sofia , between the Adriatic and Black Sea .
Geography of the Republic of Macedonia is the center of the Balkans , between Belgrade and Athens , Tirana and Sofia .
Rates of increase were very high among rural Muslims : Turks and Torbesh ( Macedonian Muslims ) are 2.5 times those of the Macedonian majority , while Albanians and Roma have 3 times as high .
Politics of the Republic of Macedonia occur within the framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic , whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government , and of a multi-party system .
With the passage of a new law and elections held in 2005 , local government functions are divided between 78 municipalities ( ; singular : .
The country 's main political divergence is between the largely ethnically-based political parties representing the country 's Macedonian majority and Albanian minority .
The Macedonian military is a defence force consisting of an army ( Армија , Armija ) ; an air force ( Воено Воздухопловство , Voeno vozduhoplovstvo ) ; and a professional military unit , the Macedonian Special Forces ( Волци , Volci ) .
The rules governing good neighbourly relations agreed between Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia were set in the reaffirmed by a joint memorandum signed on January 22 , 2008 in Sofia .
Reacting to the publication of a controversial encyclopedia by the Macedonian Academy of Sciences and Arts ( MANU ) in 2009 , Bulgaria warned that `` Foreign relations of the Republic of Macedonia is unacceptable for a country aspirant for NATO and EU membership to resort to terminology typical for the ideology of the Cold War era , '' and that the encyclopedia `` gives no contribution to strengthening of the neighborly relations and curbing down of the ` hatred speech ' '' .
Mexico has left the naming dispute between Greece and Macedonia to the United Nations for the issue to be resolved Macedonia and Serbia traditionally have friendly relations .
However , the non-recognition of the Macedonian Orthodox Church by the Serbian Orthodox Church and Macedonia 's recognition of Kosovo as an independent state are disturbing the relations of these two countries .
Macedonia and Kosovo have very friendly and cordial neighbourly relations which mainly are due to the ethnic Albanian populations that Live inside Macedonia .
It was the first time ( 4th century BC ) that the Greek mainland ( city-states and kingdoms ) with the same language , culture , and religion were united against the enemies of Asia in one league .
The WIPO-protected Greek state symbol was removed from the flag under an agreement reached between the Republic of Macedonia and Greece in September 1995 .
Malawi capital is Lilongwe , which is also Malawi 's largest city ; the second largest is Blantyre and the third is Mzuzu .
As of 2010 , homosexuality has been illegal in Malawi , and in one recent case , a couple perceived as homosexual faced extensive jail time when convicted .
After March , the rainfall rapidly diminishes and from May to September wet mists float from the highlands into the plateaus , with almost no rainfall during these months .
The main countries that Malawi imports from are South Africa , India , Zambia , Tanzania , the US and China .
As of 2007 there was one government-run radio station and approximately a dozen more owned by private enterprise .
There is a high adult prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS , with an estimated 930,000 adults ( or 11.9 % of the population ) living with the disease in 2007 .
Raising Malawi also works with the Millennium Villages Project to improve education , health care , infrastructure and agriculture in Malawi .
This is extremely beneficial to the children there as Malawi provides them with clothing and a small amount of education .
Ethnic conflict and continuing migration prevented the formation of a society that was uniquely and cohesively Malawian until the dawn of the 20th century .
Malawi dances are a strong part of Malawi 's culture , and the National Dance Troupe ( formerly the Kwacha Cultural Troupe ) was formed in November 1987 by the government .
A classic example of this is the replacement of the non-avian dinosaurs with mammals at the end of the Cretaceous , and of brachiopods by bivalves at the Permo-Triassic boundary .
The establishment of diplomatic relations between Madagascar and the Soviet Union started on September 29 , 1972 .
On June 23 , 2000 the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) approved a $ 41 million disbursement of Foreign relations of Madagascar new three-year $ 141 million Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility .
Under the plan , the World Bank , the International Monetary Fund and the African Development Fund would write off 100 percent of the money owed to them by 18 countries Since the mid-1980s , the donor community , led by the World Bank and the USAID , has recognized that Madagascar is one of the world 's most unusual natural wonders .
At $ 18 million per annum the environment program of USAID/Madagascar is the second largest American program in Madagascar , and one of the largest programs of Foreign relations of Madagascar kind in the world .
Research has demonstrated that tavy , a form of slash and burns agriculture , has been the largest contributor to environmental degradation in Madagascar .
The first phase of Madagascar 's Environment Plan ( EP1 , 1990 -- 1996 ) was marked by the creation of Integrated Conservation and Development Projects ( ICDP ) .
In 1991 a hominin jawbone was discovered near Uraha village that was between 2.3 and 2.5 million years old , the oldest evidence of the genus Homo ever discovered .
Eventually encompassing most of modern Malawi , as well as parts of modern day Mozambique and Zambia , the Maravi Empire began on the southwestern shores of Lake Malawi .
In 1878 , a number of traders , mostly from Glasgow , formed the African Lakes Company to supply goods and services to the missionaries .
In 1883 , a consul of the British Government was accredited to the `` Kings and Chiefs of Central Africa '' and in 1891 , the British established the British Central Africa Protectorate .
This included John Chilembwe ; taken and educated in the USA by a missionary family .
Among the laws enforced by Banda , it was illegal for women to wear see-through clothes , pants of any kind or skirts which showed any part of the knee .
Tourism `` In global terms Africa , and Southern Africa in particular , is a small player in travel and tourism .
Free and fair national elections were held on 17 May 1994 under a provisional constitution , which took full effect the following year .
Property , valued at over millions of dollars , were either vandalised or stolen and 200 mosques were torched down .
By AD 1500 , the two divisions of the tribe had established a kingdom stretching from north of the present-day city of Nkhotakota to the Zambezi River in the south , and from Lake Malawi in the east , to the Luangwa River in Zambia in the west .
Malawi 's judicial system , based on the English model , is made up of magisterial lower courts , a High Court , and a Supreme Court of Appeal .
AFORD became the first registered opposition political party , and other opposition party 's formed thereafter .
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization estimates the following production of unprocessed tobacco by country in 2009 ( figures are in thousands of tonnes .
High transport costs , which can comprise over 30 % of Economy of Malawi total import bill , constitute a serious impediment to economic development and trade .
Other challenges include a paucity of skilled labor , difficulty in obtaining expatriate employment permits , bureaucratic red tape , corruption , and inadequate and deteriorating road , electricity , water , and telecommunications infrastructure which hinder economic development in Malawi .
However , recent government initiatives targeting improvements in the road infrastructure , together with private sector participation in railroad and telecommunications , have begun to render the investment environment more attractive .
Transport in Malawi has 495 mi of railways , all narrow-gauge and about 45 percent of Transport in Malawi roads are paved .
Between 1985 and 1995 , Malawi accommodated more than a million refugees from Mozambique .
An allele ( or ) , or allel , is one of a number of alternative forms of the same gene or same genetic locus ( generally a group of genes ) .
For example , at the gene locus for the ABO blood type carbohydrate antigens in humans , classical genetics recognizes three Allele , IA , IB , and IO , that determine compatibility of blood transfusions .
In many cases , genotypic interactions between the two alleles at a locus can be described as dominant or recessive , according to which of the two homozygous genotypes the phenotype of the heterozygote most resembles .
where p is the frequency of one allele and q is the frequency of the alternative allele , which necessarily sum to unity .
and A number of genetic disorders are caused when an individual inherits two recessive alleles for a single-gene trait .
In 2010 , the Malays were 60.3 % , Chinese 22.9 % , and the Indians 7.1 % of the total population .
In the past , Malays wrote in Pallava or using the Sanskrit-based alphabet of Kawi .
The Iban of form the largest of all indigenous groups , numbering over 600,000 ( 30 % of Sarawak 's population ) and some of who still live in traditional longhouses which can hold up to 200 people .
Longhouses are mostly places along the Rajang and Lupar rivers and their tributaries , although many Iban have moved to the cities .
Many tribes , both on the peninsula and in Borneo , were traditionally nomadic or semi-nomadic hunter -- gatherers , including the Punan , Penan and Senoi .
While some Chinese and Indian families , known as Peranakan ( `` straits-born '' ) , have resided in Malaysia since as far back as 15th century Melaka , the majority of Malaysia 's Chinese and Indian populations are descended from migrants who arrived during the colonial period .
Malaysian Chinese businesses developed as part of the larger bamboo network , a network of overseas Chinese businesses operating in the markets of Southeast Asia that share common family and cultural ties .
There 's also the Chitty community in Malacca , similar to the Babas and Nyonyas , Demographics of Malaysia is the result of the assimilation between Indian immigrants and local culture .
Thus , the Indians in East Malaysia prioritize on Malay and English because those languages are more useful in daily life in that region .
Islam is the largest and official religion of Malaysia , although Malaysia is a multi-religious society and the Demographics of Malaysia constitution guarantees religious freedom .
No other criminal or civil offences are under the jurisdiction of the Shariah courts , which have a similar hierarchy to the Civil Courts .
Literacy rates ( percentage of people over 15 who can read and write ) are high in Malaysia , with an overall Literacy rate of 88.7 % .
The education system features a non-compulsory kindergarten education followed by six years of compulsory primary education , and five years of optional secondary education .
Vernacular schools ( Sekolah Jenis Kebangsaan ) use either Chinese or Tamil as the medium of instruction , whereas national primary schools ( Sekolah Kebangsaan ) uses Bahasa Malaysia as the medium of instruction for subjects except English , Science and Mathematics .
The only exceptions are Mathematics and Science and languages other than Malay , however this was only implemented in 2003 , prior to which all non-language subjects were taught in Malay .
In the final year of secondary education ( Form Five ) , students sit the Malaysian Certificate of Education ( Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia , SPM ) examination , which is equivalent to the former British Ordinary or ` O ' Levels .
A major problem with the health care sector is the lack of medical centres for rural areas , which the government is trying to counter through the development of and expansion of a system called `` tele-primary care '' .
The majority of private hospitals are in urban areas and , unlike many of the public hospitals , are equipped with the latest diagnostic and imaging facilities .
Although many executive and judicial branches of the federal government have moved to Putrajaya , Kuala Lumpur is the seat of the Parliament of Malaysia , making Demographics of Malaysia the country 's legislative capital .
George Town , situated in the state of Penang , is the third largest city and fifth largest urban area in Malaysia .
Demographics of Malaysia is the result of the assimilation between Indian immigrants and local culture .
The hierarchy of authority in Malaysia , in accordance to the Federal Constitution , has stipulated the three branches ( administrative components ) of Politics of Malaysia as consisting of the Executive , Judiciary and Legislative branch .
In addition to the UMNO and other member parties of the Barisan Nasional , three main opposition parties ( and several smaller parties ) compete in national and state-level elections in Malaysia .
Critics generally agree that although authoritarianism in Malaysia preceded the administration of Mahathir bin Mohamad , it was he who `` carried the process forward substantially '' Legal scholars have suggested that the political `` equation for religious and racial harmony '' is rather fragile , and that this `` fragility stems largely from the identification of religion with race coupled with the political primacy of the Malay people colliding with the aspiration of other races for complete equality '' .
On 10 November 2007 , a mass rally , called the 2007 Bersih Rally , took place in the Dataran Merdeka Kuala Lumpur at 3 pm to demand for clean and fair elections .
The subordinate courts in each of these jurisdictions include Sessions Courts , Magistrates ' Courts , and Courts for Children .
This caused the political parties of the three major races at the time , the UMNO ( representing Malays ) , the MCA ( representing Chinese ) , and the MIC ( representing Indians ) , to join and form the Alliance Party .
Tan Sri Nor Mohamed , a government minister , said Malaysia could attain developed country status in 2018 if the country 's growth remains constant or increases .
All the trade in the Straits , and especially the spices from the Celebes and the Moluccas , moved under Economy of Malaysia protection and through Economy of Malaysia markets .
Since 1955 , with the commencement of the First Malayan Five Year Plan , the government has used these plans to intervene in the economy to achieve such goals as redistribution of wealth and investment in , for instance , infrastructure projects .
Chinese businesses in Malaysia developed as part of the larger bamboo network , a network of overseas Chinese businesses operating in the markets of Southeast Asia that share common family and cultural ties .
Some have argued that the NEP has indeed successfully created a Middle/Upper Class of Malay businesspeople and professionals .
Current GDP per capita grew 31 % in the Sixties and 358 % in the Seventies , but this proved unsustainable and growth scaled back sharply to 36 % in the Eighties .
Cash-rich PLCs and consortia of banks eager to benefit from increased and rapid development began large infrastructure projects .
Manufacturing grew from 13.9 % of GDP in 1970 to 30 % in 1999 , while agriculture and mining which together had accounted for 42.7 % of GDP in 1970 , dropped to 9.3 % and 7.3 % , respectively , in 1999 .
This created opportunity for local businesses to raise capital on the KLSE , and carry out infrastructure development in areas like telecommunications , highways and power generation to meet bottlenecks caused by rapid industrialisation .
The influx of foreign investment led to the KLSE Composite index trading above 1,300 in 1994 and the Ringgit trading above 2.5 in 1997 .
Foreign direct investment fell at an alarming rate and , as capital flowed out of the country , the value of the ringgit dropped from MYR 2.50 per USD to , at one point , MYR 4.80 per USD.The Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange 's composite index fell from approximately 1300 to nearly merely 400 points in a few short weeks .
Inflationary pressures remained benign , and , as a result , Bank Negara Malaysia , the central bank , had been able to follow a low interest rate policy .
In March 2005 , the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development ( UNCTAD ) published a paper on the sources and pace of Malaysia 's recovery , written by Jomo K.S. of the applied economics department , University of Malaya , Kuala Lumpur .
Although the controls and economic housekeeping may or may not have been the principal reasons for recovery , there is no doubt that the banking sector has become more resilient to external shocks .
When the Democratic Action Party was elected in the state of Penang in 2008 , Economy of Malaysia announced that Economy of Malaysia will do away with the NEP , claiming that Economy of Malaysia '' ... breeds nepotism , corruption and systemic inefficiency '' .
Smuggling and hoarding , which leads to shortages , is a prominent problem in Malaysia due to the subsidies .
On September 2010 , in an interview with CNBC , Dato ' Seri Najib Tun Razak , which is the Prime Minister of Malaysia and also the Finance Minister said that the government is open to open up the Ringgit to off shore trading if the move will help Economy of Malaysia .
In terms of agriculture , Malaysia is one of the top exporters of natural rubber and palm oil , which together with sawn logs and sawn timber , cocoa , pepper , pineapple and tobacco dominate the growth of the sector .
As of January 1 , 2007 , Petronas reported that oil and gas reserve in Malaysia amounted to equivalent .
In 1999 , two-way bilateral trade between the U.S. and Malaysia totaled U.S. $ 30.5 billion , with U.S. exports to Malaysia totaling U.S. $ 9.1 billion and U.S. imports from Malaysia increasing to U.S. $ 21.4 billion .
Principal U.S. investment approved by the Malaysian Investment Development Authority ( MIDA ) was concentrated in the chemicals , electronics , and electrical sectors .
Malaysia is seeking membership into the Trans Pacific Partnership , a regional trade pact between the United States and countries in the Pacific Rim .
This leads to a Free trade agreement which was in effect from 13 July 2006 and expected to be fully realized in 2016 .
The agreement Economy of Malaysia is an extension of an FTA between ASEAN and Japan , which is called Asean-Japan Comprehensive Economic Partnership .
The national oil company , Petronas , provides about 40 % of the federal budget in taxes , dividends and royalties .
Currently , many major oil companies such as ExxonMobil , Royal Dutch Shell , Nippon Oil , and Murphy Oil are involved in such contracts .
In an effort to diversify Economy of Malaysia and make Economy of Malaysia on exported goods , the government has pushed to increase tourism in Malaysia .
The Ministry of Culture , Arts and Tourism ( MOCAT ) was established in 1987 under which the TDC was incorporated .
From 1987-1997 research and development used 0.24 % of GNP , and in 1998 high-tech exports made up 54 % of Malaysia 's manufactured exports .
In 2002 the Malaysian National Space Agency ( Angkasa ) was formed to deal with all of Malaysia 's activities in space , and to promote space education and space experiments .
In an effort to create a self-reliant defensive ability and support national development Malaysia privatised some of Economy of Malaysia military facilities in the 1970s .
The main modes of transport in Peninsular Malaysia include buses , trains , cars and to an extent , airplanes .
Malaysian Armed Forces has three branches , the Royal Malaysian Navy ( Tentera Laut Diraja Malaysia -- TLDM ) , Malaysian Army ( Tentera Darat Malaysia -- TD ) , and the Royal Malaysian Air Force ( Tentera Udara Diraja Malaysia -- TUDM ) .
The RMN Future Fleet programme is component of second batch of Lekiu class frigates , Scorpène class submarines , New Generation Patrol Vessels ( NGPV ) , Multi-Purpose Support Ship ( MPSS ) and maritime patrol aircraft .
Malaysian Armed Forces was reported during the LIMA 07 , Malaysian army and Joint Forces Command had showed strong interest toward the indigenous tactical UAV .
The Five Power Defence Arrangement between Malaysia , Singapore , Australia , New Zealand , and the United Kingdom , is a regional security initiative which has been in place for almost 40 years .
Malaysia has been a member of the Commonwealth since independence in 1957 , when Foreign relations of Malaysia entered into the Anglo-Malayan Defence Agreement ( AMDA ) with the United Kingdom whereby Britain guaranteed the defence of Malaya ( and later Malaysia ) .
Maldives , officially Maldives and also referred to as Maldives , is Maldives nation in the Indian Ocean consisting of a double chain of twenty-six atolls , oriented north-south , that lie between Minicoy Island ( the southernmost part of Lakshadweep , India ) and the Chagos Archipelago .
The Dutch referred to the islands as the `` Maldivische Eilanden '' , while the British anglicised the local name for the islands first to the `` Maldive Islands '' and later to the `` Maldives '' .
Malé is one of the Maldives ' administrative divisions and , traditionally , it was the `` King 's Island '' where the ancient Maldive royal dynasties were enthroned .
The word Dheeb/Deeb ( archaic Dhivehi , related to Sanskrit dvīpa ) means `` island '' , and Dhives ( Dhivehin ) means `` islanders '' ( i.e. , Maldivians ) .
The Jatakas and Puranas show abundant evidence of this maritime trade ; the use of similar traditional boat building techniques in Northwestern South Asia and Maldives , and the presence of silver punch mark coins from both regions , gives additional weight to this .
Their settlement in Sri Lanka and the Maldives marks a significant change in demographics and the development of the Indo-Aryan language Dhivehi , which is most similar in grammar , phonology , and structure to Sinhala , and especially to the more ancient Elu Prakrit , which has less Pali .
The ancient Maldivian Kings promoted Buddhism , and the first Maldive writings and artistic achievements , in the form of highly developed sculpture and architecture , are from that period .
Before embracing Buddhism as their way of life , Maldivians had practised an ancient form of Hinduism , ritualistic traditions known as Śrauta , in the form of venerating the Surya ( the ancient ruling cast were of Aadheetta or Suryavanshi origins ) .
Although Bell asserted that the ancient Maldivians had followed Theravada Buddhism , many local Buddhist archaeological remains now in the Malé Museum in fact also display elements of Mahayana and Vajrayana iconography .
This is why the formal titles of Maldives kings until 1968 contained references to `` kula sudha ira '' , which means `` descended from the Moon and the Sun '' .
Before then , and in some situations since , Maldives was also known as the Saridhaaleys ( Ivory Throne ) .
In the Arabic script the words al-Barbari and al-Tabrizi are very much alike , owing to the fact that Arabic has no letters to represent vowels .
Cured in pits , beaten , spun and then twisted into cordage and ropes , coir 's salient quality is Maldives resistance to saltwater .
The British government promised military protection and non-interference in local administration in exchange for an annual tribute , so that the islands were akin to an Indian princely state .
A series of coup attempts ( in 1980 , 1983 , and 1988 ) by Nasir supporters and business interests tried to topple the government without success .
The government reportedly considered locations in Sri Lanka and India due to cultural and climate similarities , and as far away as Australia .
On 16 January 2012 , the Maldives military , on orders from President Nasheed , un-constitutionally arrested Judge Abdulla Mohamed , the chief justice of Maldives Criminal Court , on charges he was blocking the prosecution of corruption and human rights cases against allies of former President Gayoom .
In March and April 2012 the previous President of Maldives Mohamed Nasheed stated : `` If carbon emissions were to stop today , the planet would not see a difference for 60 to 70 years , '' Nasheed said .
At least one study appears to show that the sea level in Maldives dropped throughout the 1970s and '80s , although later studies failed to back this up .
Among the many marine families represented are Pufferfish , Fusiliers , Jackfish , Lionfish , Oriental Sweetlips , reef sharks , Groupers , Eels , Snappers , Bannerfish , Batfish , Humphead Wrasse , Spotted Eagle Rays , Scorpionfish , Lobsters , Nudibranches , Angelfish , Butterflyfish , Squirrelfish , Soldierfish , Glassfish , Surgeonfish , Unicornfish , Triggerfish , Napoleon wrasses , and Barracudas .
All stated that the president was the Head of State , Head of Government and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces and the Police of Maldives .
An appointed Prosecutor General ( PG ) is responsible for initiating court proceedings on behalf of the government , overseeing how investigations are being conducted and having a say in criminal prosecutions , duties previously held by the Attorney General .
In 2012 , 35 Buddhist and Hindu artifacts , from the 6th century BC , were destroyed from the Maldives ' National Museum by suspected Islamic law enforcers .
Therefore the duties assigned to the MNDF of maintaining surveillance over Maldives ' waters and providing protection against foreign intruders poaching in the EEZ and territorial waters , are immense tasks from both logistical and economic view points .
In addition to a name , every administrative division is identified by the Maldivian code letters , such as `` Haa Alif '' for Thiladhunmati Uthuruburi ( Thiladhunmathi North ) ; and by a Latin code letter .
New industries that have since emerged include printing , production of PVC pipes , brick making , marine engine repairs , bottling of aerated water , and garment production .
Other aspects of tassawuf , such as ritualised dhikr ceremonies called Maulūdu ( Mawlid ) -- the liturgy of which included recitations and certain supplications in a melodical tone -- existed until very recent times .
Maldives is an island nation in the Indian Ocean consisting of a double chain of twenty-six atolls , oriented north-south , that lie between Minicoy Island ( the southernmost part of Lakshadweep , India ) and the Chagos Archipelago .
Despite being omitted or just mentioned briefly in most history books , the 1,400 year-long Buddhist period has a foundational importance in History of the Maldives .
History of the Maldives was during this period that the culture of the Maldives as we now know History of the Maldives both developed and flourished .
And yet the Maldivian language , the first Maldive scripts , the architecture , the ruling institutions , the customs and manners of the Maldivians originated at the time when the Maldives were a Buddhist Kingdom .
These stupas and other archaeological remains , like foundations of Buddhist buildings Vihara , compound walls and stone baths , are found on many islands of the Maldives .
The importance of the Arabs as traders in the Indian Ocean by the 12th century AD may partly explain why the last Buddhist king of Maldives converted to Islam in the year 1153 ( or 1193 , for certain copper plate grants give a later date ) .
The king thereupon adopted the Muslim title and name ( in Arabic ) of Sultan ( besides the old Divehi title of Maha Radun or Ras Kilege or Rasgefānu ) Muhammad al Adil , initiating a series of six Islamic dynasties consisting of eighty-four sultans and sultanas that lasted until 1932 when the sultanate became elective .
Rivalry between two dominant families , the Athireege clan and the Kakaage clan was resolved with former winning the favour of the British authorities in Ceylon , who concluded a Protection Agreement in 1887 .
In 1957 , however , the new prime minister , Ibrahim Nasir , called for a review of the agreement in the interest of shortening the lease and increasing the annual payment .
The short-lived state ( 1959 -- 63 ) , called the United Suvadive Republic , had a combined population of 20,000 inhabitants scattered in the southernmost atolls Huvadu , Addu and Fua Mulaku .
Despite coup attempts in 1980 , 1983 , and 1988 , Gayoom served three more presidential terms .
Whereas the 1980 and 1983 coup attempts against Gayoom 's presidency were not considered serious , the third coup attempt in November 1988 alarmed the international community .
However , as with other penicillin drugs , Ampicillin is relatively non-toxic and adverse effects of a serious nature are encountered only rarely .
Ampicillin inhibits the third and final stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis in binary fission , which ultimately leads to cell lysis .
Sunni Islam is now the only accepted religion , though there are small numbers of others , particularly Buddhist workers from Sri Lanka and Hindus from India .
The President heads the executive branch and appoints the Cabinet ; Like many presidential democracies , each member of the cabinet need to be approved by the Parliament .
A total of 465 candidates - 211 from 11 political parties and 254 independents - were vying for seats in the People 's Majlis .
The Dhivehi Qaumee Party ( DQP ) and the Republican Party ( RP ) took two seats and one seat respectively .
A 1968 referendum approved a constitution making Maldives a republic with executive , legislative , and judicial branches of government .
Pro-reformists claim this was in order to cover-up the chain of authority and circumstances that led to the killings .
Out of the 42 elected parliamentaries , according to Adam Carr , 20 ( 32.3 % of popular vote ) support Politics of the Maldives and 18 ( 31.1 % of popular vote ) are endorsed by the Maldivian Democratic Party .
Studies show that decreased sunshine and increased acid rain from the cloud .
In Malé is the only school for grades 11 and 12 , with a school in the southern most island of Gan scheduled to offer the final 2 years starting in 2002 .
Telecommunications in the Maldives inhabited islands are connected with telephone and fax servicesatellite earth station - 3 Intelsat ( Indian Ocean ) AM 1 , FM 5 , shortwave 1 ( 2008 ) 35,000 ( 1999 ) 3 ( 2009 ) 10,000 ( 1999 ) Internet Service Providers ( ISPs ) : 2 ( 2003 ) 20,000 ( 2008 ) Country code ( Top level domain ) : MV MV Domain registrar : http://www.dhivehinet.net.mv
16 ships ( 1,000 GRT or over ) totaling 66 804 GRT / 2 1 1 ( 2005 ) 3 3 ( 2005 ) .
Mali consists of eight regions and Mali borders on the north reach deep into the middle of the Sahara , while the country 's southern part , where the majority of inhabitants live , features the Niger and Sénégal rivers .
According to John Iliffe , `` The worst crises were in the 1680s , when famine extended from the Senegambian coast to the Upper Nile and ` many sold themselves for slaves , only to get a sustenance ' , and especially in 1738 -- 56 , when West Africa 's greatest recorded subsistence crisis , due to drought and locusts , reportedly killed half the population of Timbuktu '' .
In early 1959 , French Sudan ( which changed Mali name to the Sudanese Republic ) and Senegal united to become the Mali Federation .
26 March 1991 is the day that marks the clash between military soldiers and peaceful demonstrating students which climaxed in the massacre of dozens under the orders of then President Moussa Traoré .
During this democratic period Mali was regarded as one of the most politically and socially stable countries in Africa .
Since the institution of a democratic form of government in 2002 , Mali relations with the West in general and with the United States in particular have improved significantly .
General insecurity along borders in the north , including cross-border banditry and terrorism , remain troubling issues in regional relations .
Since the agreement , sixteen enterprises were privatized , twelve partially privatized , and twenty liquidated .
Malaria and other arthropod-borne diseases are prevalent in Mali , as are a number of infectious diseases such as cholera and tuberculosis .
From History of Mali capital in Kumbi Saleh on the edge of the desert , the empire expanded throughout southeastern Mauritania , southwestern Mali , and northern Senegal .
The Bambara Empire existed as a centralized state from 1712 to 1861 , was based at Ségou ( also seen as Segu ) , and ruled parts of central and southern Mali .
President Modibo Keïta , whose Sudanese Union-African Democratic Rally ( US/RDA ) party had dominated pre-independence politics ( as a member of the African Democratic Rally ) , moved quickly to declare a single-party state and to pursue a socialist policy based on extensive nationalization .
In late December 1985 , however , a border dispute between Mali and Burkina Faso over the mineral rich Agacher strip erupted into a brief war .
Ramtane Lamamra , the African Union 's peace and security commissioner , said the African Union has discussed sending a military force to reunify Mali and that negotiations with terrorists had been ruled out but negotiations with other armed factions is still open .
Mande 50 % ( Bambara , Malinke , Soninke ) , Fula 17 % , Voltaic 12 % , Songhai 6 % , Tuareg and Moor 10 % , other 5 % Although each ethnic group speaks a separate language , nearly 80 % of Malians communicate over ethnic borders in Bambara , which is the common language of the marketplace .
The National Assembly ( Assemblée Nationale ) has 160 members , elected for a five-year term , 147 members elected in single-seat constituencies and 13 members elected by Malians abroad .
Politics of Mali is head of state with a Presidentially appointed Prime Minister as the head of government , and of a multi-party system .
These reforms , combined with adequate rainfall , successful integrated rural agriculture programs in the south , and improved management of the Office du Niger , have led to surplus cereal production over the past five years .
Rice is grown extensively along the banks of the Niger between Ségou and Mopti , with the most important rice-producing area at the Office du Niger , located north of Ségou toward the Mauritanian border .
The Niger River also is an important source of fish , providing food for riverside communities ; the surplus -- smoked , salted , and dried -- is exported .
Gold , the third largest source of Malian exports , is still mined in the southern region : at the end of the 20th century Mali had the third highest gold production in Africa ( after South Africa and Ghana ) .
These goldfields , the largest of which lie in the Bambouk Mountains in western Mali ( Kenieba Cercle ) , were a major source of wealth and trade as far back as the Ghana Empire .
While great income is produced , most staff employed in the mining industries are from outside Mali , and residents in the areas of intensive mining complain of little benefit from the industry .
This included $ 39 million in sector support through United States Agency for International Development ( USAID ) programs , largely channeled to local communities through private voluntary agencies ; Peace Corps program budget of $ 2.2 million for more than 160 Volunteers serving in Mali ; Self Help and the Democracy Funds of $ 170,500 ; and $ 650,000 designated for electoral support .
Internet connectivity , very low by developed world standards , has been the focus of decentralised commune based development projects since the year 2000 , while the government participates in the UN 's Global Alliance for ICT and Development and the Connect Africa projects to further computer and internet availability in the country .
Foreign funding , and some commercial funding ( mostly in the capital ) have helped to established 160 FM stations in Mali , though many of those are small community `` suitcase radio stations '' .
The state operated radio , is ORTM ( office de Radiodiffusion au Television de Mali ) , which operates 2 FM stations and 1 television station , with repeaters throughout the country .
The shortwave station in Bamako has seven frequencies and five transmitters and relays broadcasts for China Radio International ( 2001 ) 570,000 ( 1997 ) 1 ( plus repeaters ) ( 2001 ) 45,000 ( 1997 ) Internet usage is low by international standards , ranked 123 of 125 by the UN in 2002 .
SOTELMA the state telecom , provides X. 25 and dial-up telephone services .
The Bamako-Dakar line , which has been described as dilapidated , is owned by a joint company established by Mali and Senegal in 1995 , with the eventual goal of privatization .
Mali 's main economic link to the coast is a paved road between Bamako and Abidjan in Côte d’Ivoire .
Bamako in particular is known for Transport in Mali green and yellow taxi fleet .
In recent years small motorcycles , imported from China and most lacking licenses , have come to dominate much of Bamako 's traffic .
While police control barriers are a common sight on African highways , and while illicit demands for bribes at such stops are common in many countries , the main Malian highway heading south from Bamako to the Burkina Faso border was singled out in late 2008 as the worst in West Africa .
A survey by the Observatory of Abnormal Practices ( OPA ) of the West African Economic and Monetary Union ( WAEMU ) found the Malian section of this road to have the highest number of police roadblocks with the highest average amount paid in bribes per trip in West Africa .
While in other nations the customs officials were responsible for most stops , in Mali , gendarmerie ( National paramilitary police ) and the Police force were found creating the majority of bribe extorting roadblocks .
Mali has 1,815 kilometers of inland waterways , principally the Niger River , some portions of which are navigable for medium and large shipping during the rainy season ( June/July -- November/December ) in years of normal rainfall .
Military of Mali organisation has suffered from the incorporation of Tuareg irregular forces into the regular military following a 1992 agreement between the government and Tuareg rebel forces ' .
The Gendarmerie and local police forces ( under the Ministry of Interior and Security ) maintain internal security .
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of the Tuareg Rebellion , the Army has struggled to maintain Military of Mali size , despite recent military aid from the United States .
Two Ilyushin Il-14 transports and a Mil Mi-8 helicopter were delivered in 1971 followed by two Antonov AN-24 transports .
Since the institution of a democratic form of government in 2002 , Mali 's relations with the West in general and the United States in particular have improved significantly .
Mali is a member of the United Nations ( and many of Foreign relations of Mali specialized agencies ) , the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) , the World Bank , the International Labour Organization ( ILO ) , the International Telecommunication Union ( ITU ) , the Universal Postal Union ( UPU ) and the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) .
Malta is a tourist destination with numerous recreational areas and historical monuments , including nine UNESCO World Heritage Sites , most prominently the Megalithic Temples which are some of the oldest free-standing structures in the world .
Pottery found by archaeologists at Skorba resembles that found in Italy , and suggests that Malta were first settled in 5200 BC mainly by stone age hunters or farmers who had arrived from the larger island of Sicily , possibly the Sicani .
Prehistoric farming settlements dating to Early Neolithic period were discovered in open areas and also in caves , such as Għar Dalam .
Others have speculated on the links between this event and Plato 's account of the disappearance of Atlantis .
Another interesting archaeological feature of Malta often attributed to these ancient builders , are equidistant uniform grooves dubbed `` cart tracks '' or `` cart ruts '' which can be found in several locations throughout the islands with the most prominent being those found in an area of Malta named `` Clapham Junction '' .
The Romans , who also lived in Mdina , referred to Malta ( and the island ) as Melita .
When the Roman Empire split into Eastern and Western divisions in the 4th century , Malta fell under the control of the Greek speaking Byzantine Empire from 395 to 870 , which ruled from Constantinople .
The Arab chronicler and geographer al-Himyari recounts that in 870 AD , following a violent struggle against the occupying Byzantines , the Arab invaders , first led by Halaf al-Hadim , and later by Sawada ibn Muhammad , looted and pillaged the island , destroying the most important buildings , and leaving it practically uninhabited until it was recolonised by the Arabs from Sicily in 1048 -- 1049 AD .
It is uncertain whether this new settlement took place as a consequence of demographic expansion in Sicily , as a result of a higher standard of living in Sicily ( in which case the recolonisation may have taken place a few decades earlier ) , or as a result of civil war which broke out among Arab rulers of Sicily in 1038 .
The Arabs introduced new irrigation , some fruits and cotton and the Siculo-Arabic language was adopted on the island from Sicily : Malta would eventually evolve into the Maltese language .
The notion that Count Roger I reportedly tore off a portion of his checkered red-and-white banner and presented Malta to the Maltese -- forming the basis of the present-day Maltese flag in gratitude for having fought on his behalf -- is founded in myth .
The Catholic Church was reinstated as the state religion with Malta under the See of Palermo , and some Norman architecture sprung up around Malta especially in Malta ancient capital Mdina .
During this period , when Frederick II of Hohenstaufen began to reorganise his Sicilian kingdom , Western culture and religion began to exert their influence more intensely .
Dispute over the title returned when the title was reinstated a few years later and the Maltese , led by the local nobility , rose up against Count Gonsalvo Monroy .
This was around the time when the universal values of freedom and liberty were incarnated by the French Revolution .
Great Britain , along with the Kingdom of Naples and the Kingdom of Sicily , sent ammunition and aid to the Maltese and Britain also sent her navy , which blockaded the islands .
In the early 1930s the British Mediterranean Fleet , which was at that time the main contributor to commerce on the island , moved to Alexandria as an economic measure and to be out of range of Italian bombers .
A defence agreement signed soon after independence ( and re-negotiated in 1972 ) expired on 31 March 1979 .
In 1989 , Malta was the venue of a summit between US President George H.W. Bush and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev , their first face-to-face encounter , which signalled the end of the Cold War .
Post-War politics dealt with constitutional questions on the relations with Britain ( first with integration then independence ) and , eventually , relations with the European Union .
The Executive Secretary , who is appointed by the council , is the executive , administrative and financial head of the council .
The objectives of the Armed Forces of Malta ( AFM ) are to maintain a military organisation with the primary aim of defending the islands ' integrity according to the defence roles as set by the government in an efficient and cost-effective manner .
The islands of the archipelago lie on the Malta plateau , a shallow shelf formed from the high points of a land bridge between Sicily and North Africa that became isolated as sea levels rose after the last Ice Age .
This is about double that of cities in the northern half of Europe , for comparison : London -- 1,461 ; however , in winter it has up to several times more sunshine than London ; for comparison : in December , London has 37 hours of sunshine whereas Malta has 155 or 164 ( depending on the sources ) .
Service providers to these industries , including fiduciary and trustee business , are a core part of the growth strategy of Malta .
The Central Bank of Malta ( Bank Ċentrali ta ' Malta ) has two key areas of responsibility : the formulation and implementation of monetary policy and the promotion of a sound and efficient financial system .
The number of pay TV subscribers fell in 2012 as subscribers cut the cord and began to rely increasingly on IPTV : the number of IPTV subscribers doubled in the six months to June 2012 .
However , the Constitution states that if there is any conflict between the Maltese and the English texts of any law , the Maltese text shall prevail .
A study collecting public opinion on what language was `` preferred '' discovered that 86 % of the population express a preference for Maltese , 12 % for English , and 2 % for Italian .
Freedom House and the CIA World Factbook report that 98 % of the population is Roman Catholic .
The parish church ( Maltese : `` il-parroċċa '' , or `` il-knisja parrokkjali '' ) is the architectural and geographic focal point of every Maltese town and village , and Malta main source of civic pride .
Saint Publius is said to have been made Malta first bishop and a grotto in Rabat , now known as `` St Paul 's Grotto '' ( and in the vicinity of which evidence of Christian burials and rituals from the 3rd century AD has been found ) , is among the earliest known places of Christian worship on the island .
For centuries , the Church in Malta was subordinate to the Diocese of Palermo , except when it was under Charles of Anjou , who appointed bishops for Malta , as did -- on rare occasions -- the Spanish and later , the Knights .
Various Roman Catholic religious orders are present in Malta , including the Jesuits , Franciscans , Dominicans and Little Sisters of the Poor .
In 1479 , Malta Malta came under Aragonese rule and the Alhambra Decree of 1492 forced all Jews to leave Malta , permitting them to take with them only a few of their belongings .
Other writers , born in Malta or of Maltese descent , have established careers abroad .
Towards the end of the 15th century , Maltese artists , like their counterparts in neighbouring Sicily , came under the influence of the School of Antonello da Messina , which introduced Renaissance ideals and concepts to the decorative arts in Malta .
Two of Caravaggio 's most notable works , The Beheading of Saint John the Baptist and Saint Jerome Writing , are on display in the Oratory of the Conventual Church of St. John .
However , the Baroque movement that followed was destined to have the most enduring impact on Maltese art and architecture .
Romanticism , tempered by the naturalism introduced to Malta by Giuseppe Calì , informed the `` salon '' artists of the early 20th century , including Edward and Robert Caruana Dingli .
In Maltese folktales the local variant of the classic closing formula , `` and Malta all lived happily ever after '' is `` u għammru u tgħammru , u spiċċat '' ( and Malta lived together , and Malta had children together , and the tale is finished ) .
Traditional Maltese delicacies served at a baptismal feast include biskuttini tal-magħmudija ( almond macaroons covered in white or pink icing ) , it-torta tal-marmorata ( a spicy , heart-shaped tart of chocolate-flavoured almond paste ) , and a liqueur known as rożolin , made with rose petals , violets and almonds .
Whichever object the child shows most interest in is said to reveal the child 's path and fortunes in adulthood .
Choosing bibles or rosary beads refers to a clerical or monastic life .
This included il-ġilwa , which led the bride and groom to a wedding ceremony that took place on the parvis of St. Andrew 's Chapel .
Local festivals , similar to those in southern Italy , are commonplace in Malta and Gozo , celebrating weddings , christenings and , most prominently , saints ' days , honouring the patron saint of the local parish .
Mnarja , or l-Imnarja ( pronounced lim-nar-ya ) is one of the most important dates on the Maltese cultural calendar .
Malta roots can be traced back to the pagan Roman feast of Luminaria ( literally , `` the illumination '' ) , when torches and bonfires lit up the early summer night of 29 June .
Malta is said that under the Knights , this was the one day in the year when the Maltese were allowed to hunt and eat wild rabbit , which was otherwise reserved for the hunting pleasures of the Knights .
For luck , many of the brides would attend in their wedding gown and veil , although this custom has long since disappeared from the Islands .
The UHM , the second-biggest union , has no newspaper , TV , or radio stations .
Malta is the venue of a summit between US President George H.W. Bush and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev , their first face-to-face encounter , which signalled the end of the Cold War .
Antibiotic resistance is a form of drug resistance whereby some or , more colloquially , superbugs .
Antibiotic resistance is a serious and growing phenomenon in contemporary medicine and has emerged as one of the pre-eminent public health concerns of the 21st century , particularly as it pertains to pathogenic organisms ( the term is especially relevant to organisms which cause disease in humans ) .
In the case of some MDR pathogens , resistance to second and even third-line antibiotics is thus sequentially acquired , a case quintessentially illustrated by Staphylococcus aureus in some nosocomial settings .
The growing prevalence and incidence of infections due to MDR pathogens is epitomised by the increasing number of familiar acronyms used to describe the causative agent and sometimes the infection generally ; of these , MRSA is probably the most well-known , but others including VISA ( vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus ) , VRSA ( vancomycin-resistant S. aureus ) , ESBL ( Extended spectrum beta-lactamase ) , VRE ( Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus ) and MRAB ( Multidrug-resistant A. baumannii ) are prominent examples .
The procedures and clinical practice during the period of drug treatment are frequently flawed -- usually no steps are taken to isolate the patient to prevent re-infection or infection by a new pathogen , negating the goal of complete destruction by the end of the course .
In the case of MRSA , increased rates of MRSA infections are seen with glycopeptides , cephalosporins and especially quinolones .
Antibiotic resistance has been shown to increase with duration of treatment ; therefore , as long as a clinically effective lower limit is observed ( that depends upon the organism and antibiotic in question ) , the use by the medical community of shorter courses of Antibiotic resistance is likely to decrease rates of resistance , reduce cost , and have better outcomes due to fewer complications such as C. difficile infection and diarrhea .
Identifying these adaptations , and targeting them to enhance the activity of existing drugs , is a promising approach to mitigate the public health crisis caused by the scarcity of new antibiotics .
The efficacy of treatment programs for these drug-resistant strains depends on whether or not programmatic improvements take into account the effects of structural violence .
/ However , complete cooking of meat inactivates bacteria , whether or not Antibiotic resistance are antibiotic-resistant .
During 2007 , two federal bills ( S. 549 and H.R. 962 ) aimed at phasing out `` nontherapeutic '' antibiotics in US food animal production .
Antibiotic resistance can be a result of horizontal gene transfer , and also of unlinked point mutations in the pathogen genome at a rate of about 1 in 108 per chromosomal replication .
S. pneumoniae is responsible for pneumonia , bacteremia , otitis media , meningitis , sinusitis , peritonitis and arthritis .
One of the most worrisome characteristics of P. aeruginosa is Antibiotic resistance low antibiotic susceptibility , which is attributable to a concerted action of multidrug efflux pumps with chromosomally encoded antibiotic resistance genes ( for example , mexAB-oprM , mexXY , etc. ) and the low permeability of the bacterial cellular envelopes .
On November 5 , 2004 , the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) reported an increasing number of Acinetobacter baumannii bloodstream infections in patients at military medical facilities in which service members injured in the Iraq/Kuwait region during Operation Iraqi Freedom and in Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom were treated .
Until recently , research and development ( R&D ) efforts have provided new drugs in time to treat bacteria that became resistant to older antibiotics .
By constructing a plasmid that contains an antibiotic resistance gene as well as the gene being engineered or expressed , a researcher can ensure that when bacteria replicate , only the copies that carry the plasmid survive .
Antibiotic resistance is a result of horizontal gene transfer , and also of unlinked point mutations in the pathogen genome at a rate of about 1 in 108 per chromosomal replication .
Since independence , two parties have dominated Malta 's polarized and evenly-divided politics during this period : the Partit Nazzjonalista ( Nationalist Party ) and the Partit Laburista ( Labour Party ) .
A referendum on the issue was called in March 2003 for which the Nationalists and the Democratic Alternative campaigned for a `` yes '' vote while Labour campaigned heavily for `` no '' vote , invalidate their vote or abstain .
On 1 May 2004 Malta joined the EU and on 1 January 2008 , the Eurozone with the euro as the national currency .
Elections must be held at least every 5 years and the electoral system used is single transferable vote .
Administrative responsibility is distributed between the local councils and the central government in Valletta .
The Local Councils Act , 1993 ( Act XV of 1993 ) was published on June 30 , 1993 , subdividing Malta into 54 local councils in Malta and 14 in Gozo .
The Executive Secretary , who is appointed by the Council , is the executive , administrative , and financial head of the Council .
The highest court , the Constitutional Court , has both original and appellate jurisdiction .
According to the Constitution , the President appoints the Chief Justice of Malta and the judges of the superior courts on the advice of the Prime Minister of Malta .
Guarantees for the independence of the judiciary include the security of tenure for judges until Politics of Malta mandatory retiring age set at 65 , or until impeachment .
Impeachment may be based on the grounds of proved inability to perform judiciary functions in office ( whether Politics of Malta is infirmity of body or mind or any other cause ) or proved misbehavior by the Commission for the Administration of Justice .
Malta 's economy became prosperous from this trade and many artisans , such as weavers , found new jobs in the port industry .
From 1871 to 1881 , about 8,000 workers found jobs in the Malta docks and a number of banks opened in Malta .
With a potential for solar and wind power , Malta produces almost all Economy of Malta electricity from oil , importing 100 % of Economy of Malta .
Energy and the cost of energy , which is oft-quoted as the highest in Europe , is a key issue in the 2013 election .
Telephones - main lines in use : 187,000 ( 1997 ) 17,691 ( 1997 ) , 141,006 ( March 2001 ) , 303,980 , i.e. 75.8 per 100 population ( 2004 ) automatic system satisfies normal requirementssubmarine cables and microwave radio relay between islands2 submarine cables ; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat ( Atlantic Ocean ) AM 1 , FM 18 , shortwave 6 ( 1999 ) 255,000 ( 1997 ) Amateur radio operators : Approx .
The 264-strong fleet consists of 174 brand new single deck buses , sourced from King Long , along with 46 second hand Mercedes-Benz Citaro articulated buses previously used in London in the United Kingdom , 10 new Optare Solo hybrid electric buses , and a mixture of existing and new buses coming from elsewhere within the Arriva group and some modern buses acquired from the outgoing operation .
These connect with Mainline services which operate at a frequency of between 10 and 30 minutes .
A frequent daily passenger and car ferry service runs between the islands of Malta and Gozo between Ċirkewwa Harbour and Mġarr Harbour .
The Malta Aviation museum is also situated here , preserving several aircraft including Hurricane and Spitfire fighters which defended the island in World War II .
The NATO subheadquarters in Malta was closed at the request of the government , and the U.S. Sixth Fleet discontinued recreational visits to the country .
The islands were named after the first in the Russian ( Krusenstern ) and French ( Duperrey ) maps ( 1820 ) , later in the English maps .
Under German Imperial control , and even before then , Japanese traders and fishermen from time to time visited Marshall Islands , although contact with the islanders was irregular .
On the archipelago , before Marshall Islands banned foreign traders , the activities of Catholic and Protestant missionaries were allowed .
On March 27 , 1933 , Japan left the League of Nations , but continued to manage the islands , and in the late 1930s began building air bases on several atolls .
Marshallese land owners receive rent for the base , and a large number of Marshallese work there .
On September 15 , 2007 , Witon Barry ( of the Tobolar Copra processing plant in Marshall Islands capital of Majuro ) said power authorities , private companies , and entrepreneurs had been experimenting with coconut oil as alternative to diesel fuel for vehicles , power generators , and ships .
There are two tertiary institutions operating in Marshall Islands -- the College of Marshall Islands and The University of the South Pacific .
Transport in the Marshall Islands kmpaved roads on major islands ( Majuro , Kwajalein ) , otherwise stone - , coral - , or laterite-surfaced roads and tracks ( 2002 ) Majuro total : 342 ships 35 ( 2009 ) , see list of airports in the Marshall Islands total : 54 ( Eniwetok , IATA airport code ENT ; Kwajalein , KWA ; and Marshall Islands International , MAJ ; Rongelap ) .1 ( 2009 ) total : 30291 ( 2009 ) .
Regional cooperation , through membership in various regional and international organizations , is a key element in Foreign relations of the Marshall Islands foreign policy .
The United States and the Marshall Islands governments both claim Wake Island , which puts the United States ' armed forces in the ambiguous position of defending US territory while acting as guarantor ( under the Compact of Free Association ) of the territorial integrity of a state with which it is involved in a territorial dispute .
Mass deacidification - along with microfilm and lamination - was developed during the early - and mid-20th century as a response to the chemical process of hydrolysis by which the fibers that constitute paper , providing Mass deacidification structure and strength , have their bonds broken , resulting in paper that becomes increasingly brittle over time .
In practice , the heating required to remove trace water from the books before reaction ( DEZ reacts violently with water ) caused an accelerated degradation of Mass deacidification , and a range of other chemical reactions between DEZ and other components of the book ( glues , bindings ) caused further damage and the production of unpleasant smells .
While deacidification has been adopted by major research libraries such as the Library of Congress and the New York Public Library , it is not clear that many archives , particularly those in the United States , have followed suit .
Whereas some European national archives have tested deacidification techniques , the United States ' National Archives and Records Administration ( NARA ) , which pioneered an aqueous technique that improved upon Barrow 's , has chosen to invest Mass deacidification preservation dollars elsewhere .
The exact length of the land mile varied slightly among English-speaking countries until the international yard and pound agreement in 1959 established the yard as exactly 0.9144 metres , giving a mile of exactly 1,609.344
The Romans , when marching their armies through Europe , were the first to use the unit of long distance ( literally `` a thousand paces '' in Latin , where each pace or stride was two steps ) .
The `` old English '' mile of medieval and early modern times appears to have measured about 1.3 statute miles ( 1.9 km ) .
The 17th century cartographer , Robert Morden , had multiple scales on his maps -- for example , his map of Hampshire showed two different miles that had a ratio of and his map of Dorset had three scales with a ratio of .
In Elizabethan times , four Irish miles was often equated to five English , though whether Mile or the `` old English '' mile is unclear .
The US redefined the US yard in 1893 , but this resulted in US and Imperial measures of distance having very slightly different lengths .
State legislation in the US is important for determining which conversion factor from the metric datum is to be used for land surveying and real estate transactions , even though the difference ( 2 ppm ) is hardly significant , given the precision of normal surveying measurements over short distances ( usually much less than a mile ) .
Navigators use dividers to step off the distance between two points on the navigational chart , then place the open dividers against the minutes-of-latitude scale at the edge of the chart , and read off the distance in nautical miles .
Thus , the radar statute mile is 10.8 μs and the radar nautical mile is 12.4 μs .
A comparison of the different lengths for a `` mile '' , in different countries and at different times in history , is given in the table below .
The term spam ( in electronic communication , and general slang ) is derived from Spam (Monty Python) .
Spam (Monty Python) features Terry Jones as The Waitress , Eric Idle as Mr. Bun and Graham Chapman as Mrs. Bun .
Only three and a half minutes long , Spam (Monty Python) builds up into a semi-argument between the waitress who has a menu limited to having Spam in just about everything ( among them , `` Lobster Thermidor aux crevettes with a Mornay sauce , garnished with truffle pâté , brandy and a fried egg on top and Spam '' ) , and Mrs Bun , who is the only one in the room who does not want Spam .
The subtitles are a continuation to an argument some Python fans have waged over whether the Hungarian is saying `` Spam (Monty Python) '' ( which would be logical ) or `` Sperm '' ( which would tie in better with the Hungarian phrasebook 's wording ) .
The audio version of Spam (Monty Python) , since the Hungarian and historian are not featured , instead has the Vikings reaching an operatic climax .
The Python programming language , named after Spam (Monty Python) , prefers to use spam , ham , and eggs as metasyntactic variables , instead of the traditional foo , bar , and baz .
That sketch was based on an actual incident between Palin and a car salesman .
Adding to the absurdity of Dead Parrot sketch all is the fact that most parrots live in tropical climates , and none are native to Norway .
In a 2002 interview with Michael Parkinson , John Cleese said that when he and Palin were performing the sketch on Drury Lane , Palin made him laugh by saying , when asked if his slug could talk , `` It mutters a bit '' instead of `` Not really '' .
He also says that when he and Palin were asked to do the sketch for Saturday Night Live Dead Parrot sketch sat down together to try to remember the lines , and when Dead Parrot sketch got stuck Dead Parrot sketch considered just going out and stopping somebody on the street to ask how Dead Parrot sketch went , since everybody seemed to have Dead Parrot sketch memorised .
During the drive back , Graham Chapman said that Cleese should eat something and asked him whether he fancied anything ; Cleese replied that he fancied a piece of cheese .
As Cleese lists increasingly obscure , unsavoury , and , in one instance fictional , cheeses to no avail , the proprietor offers weak excuses such as `` Ohh !
In the audio version on The Monty Python Matching Tie and Handkerchief ( MT&H ) album and other live and recorded versions , Cleese also mentions Greek feta .
`` The Funniest Joke in the World '' is the title most frequently used for written references to a Monty Python 's Flying Circus comedy sketch , which is also known by two other phrases that appear within The Funniest Joke in the World , `` Joke Warfare '' and `` Killer Joke '' , the latter being the most commonly spoken title used to refer to The Funniest Joke in the World .
A very brave Scotland Yard inspector ( Graham Chapman ) tells a reporter that he plans to retrieve the joke , with the playing of very sombre music on gramophone records and the chanting of laments by fellow policemen to create a depressing mood in the event he should read the joke .
The Funniest Joke in the World is the title most frequently used for written references to a Monty Python 's Flying Circus comedy sketch , which is also known by two other phrases that appear within it , `` Joke Warfare '' and `` Killer Joke '' , the latter being the most commonly spoken title used to refer to it .
The Funniest Joke in the World is the title most frequently used for written references to a Monty Python 's Flying Circus comedy sketch , which is also known by two other phrases that appear within it , `` Joke Warfare '' and `` Killer Joke '' .
At this point , the Inquisition -- consisting of Cardinal Ximénez ( Michael Palin ) , and his assistants Cardinal Biggles ( Terry Jones ) , and Cardinal Fang ( Terry Gilliam ) -- burst into the room to the sound of a jarring musical sting .
Maya Ying Lin ( born October 5 , 1959 ) is an American architectural designer and artist who is known for Maya Lin work in sculpture and landscape art .
Maya Lin parents immigrated to the United States from China in 1949 and settled in Ohio in 1958 , one year before Maya Lin was born .
Maya Lin father , Henry Huan Lin , was a ceramist and former dean of the Ohio University College of Fine Arts .
In 1981 , at age 21 and while still an undergraduate , Maya Lin won a public design competition for the Vietnam Veterans Memorial , beating out 1,441 other competition submissions .
The black cut-stone masonry wall , with the names of 58,272 fallen soldiers carved into its face , was completed in late October 1982 and dedicated on November 13 , 1982 .
Maya Lin , who now owns and operates Maya Lin Studio in New York City , went on to design other structures , including the Civil Rights Memorial in Montgomery , Alabama ( 1989 ) and the Wave Field at the University of Michigan ( 1995 ) .
/ sup > At first the park was criticized for being relatively uninviting ( with punched card pits promoting mosquito infestation and preventing safe active recreation ) and lacked trees or structures to shade students from the sun .
`` Above and Below '' is made of aluminum tubing that has been electrolytically colored during the anodization process .
Maya Lin belief in a space being connected and the transition from inside to outside being fluid , coupled with what a space means , has led Maya Lin to create some very memorable designs .
Paper spread from China via the Islamic world to Europe by the 14th century , and by the late 15th century had largely replaced parchment for many purposes .
When Greek or Latin works were published , numerous professional copies were made simultaneously by scribes in a scriptorium , each making a single copy from an original that was declaimed aloud .
Because of the likelihood of errors being introduced each time Manuscript was copied , the filiation of different version of the same text is a fundamental part of the study and criticism of all texts that have been transmitted in manuscript .
In film and theatre , Manuscript , or script for short , is an author 's or dramatist 's text , used by a theatre company or film crew during the production of the work 's performance or filming .
More specifically , a motion picture manuscript is called a screenplay ; a television manuscript , a teleplay ; a manuscript for the theatre , a stage play ; and a manuscript for audio-only performance is often called a radio play , even when the recorded performance is disseminated via non-radio means .
In insurance , a manuscript policy is one that is negotiated between the insurer and the policyholder , as opposed to an off-the-shelf form supplied by the insurer .
Parchment , or vellum as the best type of parchment is known had also replaced papyrus , which was not nearly so long lived and has survived to the present only in the extremely dry conditions of Egypt , although Manuscript was widely used across the Roman world .
With all skins , the quality of the finished product is based on how much preparation and skill was put into turning the skin into parchment .
Parchment made from calf or sheep was the most common in Northern Europe , while civilizations in Southern Europe preferred goatskin .
Often , if the parchment is white or cream in color and veins from the animal can still be seen , Manuscript is calfskin .
After that is complete , the maker will use a crescent shaped knife , called lunarium or lunellum , to clean any surviving hairs .
Raymond Clemens and Timothy Graham point out , in `` Introduction to Manuscript Studies '' , that `` the quire was the scribe 's basic writing unit throughout the Middle Ages '' .
Throughout time from Carolingian period and all the way up to the Middles Ages , different styles of folding the quire came about .
The hair side would meet the hair side and the same goes with the flesh side .
This was not the same style used in the British Isles , where the membrane would be folded so that Manuscript turned out an eight leaf quire , with single leaves in the third and sixth positions .
The Ides fell on the thirteenth in those months in which the Nones fell on the fifth , and the fifteenth in the other four months .
Merovingian script , or `` Luxeuil minuscule '' , is named after an abbey in Western France , the Luxeuil Abbey , founded by the Irish missionary St Columba in ca.
Manuscript was used in the Holy Roman Empire between approximately 800 and 1200 .
In Introduction to Manuscript Studies , Clemens and Graham associate the beginning of this text coming from the Abby of Saint-Martin at Tours .
Manuscript adoption there , replacing Insular script , was encouraged by the importation of continental European manuscripts by Saints Dunstan , Aethelwold , and Oswald .
In 2012 , primarily in response to events occurring in the Australian Parliament , the Macquarie Dictionary ( which documents Australian English and New Zealand English ) expanded the definition to include not only hatred of women but also `` entrenched prejudices against women '' .
In his book City of Sokrates : An Introduction to Classical Athens , J.W. Roberts argues that older than tragedy and comedy was a Misogyny tradition in Greek literature , reaching back at least as far as Hesiod .
Athenaeus , in Deipnosophistae or Banquet of the Learned , has one of the diners quoting Hieronymus of Cardia who confirms the view was widespread , while offering Sophocles ' comment on the matter .
In his book The Power of Denial : Buddhism , Purity , and Gender , professor Bernard Faure of Columbia University argued generally that `` Buddhism is paradoxically neither as sexist nor as egalitarian as is usually thought '' .
He emphasised that Buddhism morally exalts Misogyny male monks while the mothers and wives of the monks also have important roles .
The fourth chapter ( or sura ) of the Qur ` an is called Women ( An-Nisa ) .
However , Baylor University professor Dr. J. Gordon Melton has written that Hubbard disregarded and abrogated much of his earlier views about women , which Melton views as merely echos of common prejudices at the time .
In comparing misogyny with misandry , sociologist Michael Flood , at the University of Wollongong , has argued that `` misandry lacks the systemic , transhistoric , institutionalized , and legislated antipathy of misogyny '' .
As many of the planters on Martinique were themselves Huguenot , and who were sharing in the suffering under the harsh strictures of the Revocation , Martinique began plotting to emigrate from Martinique with many of their recently-arrived brethren .
Telephones - main lines in use : 172 000 ( 2001 ) 319 900 ( 2002 ) domestic facilities are adequateNAmicrowave radio relay to Guadeloupe , Dominica , and Saint Lucia ; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat ( Atlantic Ocean ) AM 0 , FM 14 , shortwave 0 ( 1998 ) 82,000 ( 1997 ) 11 ( plus nine repeaters ) ( 1997 ) 66,000 ( 1997 ) Internet Service Providers ( ISPs ) : 2 ( 2000 ) 107 000 ( 2005 ) Country code ( Top level domain ) : MQ .
The French Republic was mostly interested in the territory for strategic reason , as a connection between their possessions in North and in West Africa .
From the 8th through the 15th century , black kingdoms of the western Sudan , such as Ghana , Mali , and Songhai , brought their political culture from the south .
Both the Sanhadja Confederation , at History of Mauritania height from the 8th to the 10th century , and the Almoravid Empire , from the 11th to the 12th century , were weakened by internecine warfare , and both succumbed to further invasions from the Ghana Empire and the Almohad Empire , respectively .
The French policy of assimilation and direct rule , however , was never applied with any vigor in Mauritania , where a system that corresponded more to Britain 's colonial policies of association and indirect rule developed .
However , after nearly three years of raids by the Sahrawi guerrillas of the Polisario Front , Mauritania 's economic and political stability began to crumble .
The discord between conflicting visions of Mauritanian society as either black or Arab , again rose to the surface during the inter-communal violence that broke out in April 1989 ( the `` 1989 Events '' ) , when a Mauritania-Senegal border dispute escalated into violence between the two communities .
The country continues to experience ethnic tensions between History of Mauritania black minority population and the dominant Mauri ( Arab-Berber ) populace .
However , Ould Taya 's election wins were dismissed as fraudulent by both opposition groups and external observers .
Mauritanian lawmaker , Mohammed Al Mukhtar , announced that `` many of the country 's people were supporting the takeover attempt and the government is `` an authoritarian regime '' and that the president had `` marginalized the majority in parliament '' .
Conflict between white Moor , black Moor , and non-Moor ethnic groups , centering on language , land tenure , and other issues , continues to pose challenges to the idea of national unity .
The Military Council later issued another statement naming as president Col. Mohamed Vall , director of the national police force , the Sûreté Nationale , since 1987 , and listing 16 other officers as members .
Signed by Woodside two weeks after the February 1 , 2005 legislation authorizing the four amendments , Politics of Mauritania provided for a lower state quota in the profit-oil , and reduced taxes by 15 percent in certain zones .
The election was won by Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi Slavery is still said to exist in Mauritania , some 100 years after slavery officially ended in the West and since Politics of Mauritania was officially abolished in the country in 1981 .
The Senate ( Majlis al-Shuyukh/S énat ) has 56 members , 53 members elected for a six-year term by munical councillors with one third renewed every two years and 3 members elected by Mauritanians abroad .
The Cairo-Dakar Highway in the Trans-African Highway network also passes through Transport in Mauritania , and has recently been paved between the capital Nouakchott and the port of Nouadhibou ; only a few kilometres remain unpaved at the Moroccan border western Africa .
The country only has around 1000 DSL subscribers , and 3000 internet subscribers in total , out of a population of 2.5 million .
The Navy ( Marine Mauritanienne ) has 620 personnel and 10 patrol and coastal combatants , with bases at Nouadhibou and Nouakchott .
The small Air Force ( Force Aerienne Islamique de Mauritanie , FAIM ) has 250 personnel , 2 FTB-337 aircraft , 15 transport aircraft of various types , and 4 SF-260E trainers .
The 5,000 paramilitaries are divided in the National Gendarmerie ( 3,000 ) , and the National Guard ( 2,000 ) who both report to the Ministry of the Interior .
General Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz , a career soldier and high-ranking officer , was a leading figure in the 2005 Mauritanian coup d'état that deposed President Maaouya Ould Sid ` Ahmed Taya .
After the Polisario Front shot down one Defender and damaged two in 1978 the Mauritanian government ordered six IA-85 Pucaras for ground attack duties from Argentina ; this order was later cancelled after a Mauritanian military coup .
Along with the neighbouring urban areas , including the cities of Navi Mumbai and Thane , Mumbai is one of the most populous urban regions in the world .
The oldest known names for Mumbai are Kakamuchee and Galajunkja ; these are sometimes still used .
This came at the insistence of the Marathi nationalist Shiv Sena party that had just won the Maharashtra state elections and mirrored similar name changes across the country .
They argued that `` Bombay '' was a corrupted English version of `` Mumbai '' and an unwanted legacy of British colonial rule .
According to the treaty , the seven islands of Bombay , the nearby strategic town of Bassein and Mumbai dependencies were offered to the Portuguese .
On 11 May 1661 , the marriage treaty of Charles II of England and Catherine of Braganza , daughter of King John IV of Portugal , placed the islands in possession of the British Empire , as part of Catherine 's dowry to Charles .
Maharashtra State with Bombay as Mumbai capital was formed with the merger of Marathi-speaking areas of Bombay State , eight districts from Central Provinces and Berar , five districts from Hyderabad State , and numerous princely states enclosed between them .
The Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( BMRDA ) was set up on 26 January 1975 by the Government of Maharashtra as an apex body for planning and co-ordination of development activities in the Bombay metropolitan region .
On 1 October 1990 , the Greater Bombay district was bifurcated to form two revenue districts namely , Bombay City and Bombay Suburban , though they were administered by same Municipal Administration .
The blasts that occurred at the Opera House , Zaveri Bazaar , and Dadar on 13 July 2011 were the latest in the series of terrorist attacks in Mumbai .
The supply from Powai lake , also within the city limits , is used only for agricultural and industrial purposes .
Between June and September , the south west monsoon rains lash Mumbai .
As of 2008 , the Globalization and World Cities Study Group ( GaWC ) has ranked Mumbai as an `` Alpha world city '' , third in Mumbai categories of Global cities .
Most of India 's major television and satellite networks , as well as Mumbai major publishing houses , are headquartered in Mumbai .
The centre of the Hindi movie industry , Bollywood , is the largest film producer in India and one of the largest in the world as well as centre of Marathi Film Industry .
Along with the rest of India , Mumbai , Mumbai commercial capital , has witnessed an economic boom since the liberalisation of 1991 , the finance boom in the mid-nineties and the IT , export , services and outsourcing boom in 2000s .
Mumbai , extending from Colaba in the south , to Mulund and Dahisar in the north , and Mankhurd in the east , is administered by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation ( BMC ) .
Currently , other parties such as Maharashtra Navnirman Sena ( MNS ) , Samajwadi Party ( SP ) , Bahujan Samaj Party ( BSP ) , and several independent candidates also contest elections in Mumbai .
The National Stadium , which was used by Wales national rugby union team , was officially opened on 7 April 1984 , however in 1997 it was demolished to make way for the Millennium Stadium in 1999 , which hosted the 1999 Rugby World Cup and became the national stadium of Wales .
By 1912 the Cardiff Football Ground , as Cardiff Arms Park was then known , had a new south stand and temporary stands on the north , east and west ends of the ground .
The opening ceremony took place on 5 October 1912 , with a match between Newport RFC and Cardiff Arms Park RFC .
In 1922 John Crichton-Stuart , 4th Marquess of Bute , had sold the entire site and Cardiff Arms Park was bought by the Cardiff Arms Park Company Limited for GB # 30,000 , Cardiff Arms Park was then leased to the Cardiff Athletic Club ( cricket and rugby sections ) for 99 years at a cost of # 200 per annum .
However in 1941 the new North Stand and part of the west terracing had been badly damaged in the Blitz by the Luftwaffe during the Second World War .
Cardiff Arms Park Park hosted the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games , which was used for the athletics events , but this event caused damage to the drainage system , so much so , that other rugby unions ( England , Scotland and Ireland ) complained after the Games about the state of the pitch .
On 17 October 1970 , the new North Stand and the Cardiff Arms Park RFC ground was completed , the North Stand cost just over GB # 1 million .
By the time the final South Stand had been completed and the Stadium officially opened on 7 April 1984 , the South Stand had cost # 4.5 M .
The first evening game to be played under floodlights was held on 4 September 1991 at 8.00 pm , between Wales and France .
The last international match to be held at the National Stadium was between Wales and England on 15 March 1997 , and the last ever match that was held at the National Stadium was on 26 April 1997 between Cardiff Arms Park and Swansea , Cardiff Arms Park won the SWALEC Cup ( WRU Challenge Cup ) by 33 points to 26 points .
In 1997 , just thirteen years after the National Stadium had opened , it was considered too small and did not have the facilities required of the time and it was demolished and a new stadium , the Millennium Stadium , was built in Cardiff Arms Park place ( completed to a north-south alignment and opened in June 1999 ) .
The Cardiff Athletic Clubhouse is situated in the corner of the ground between the South Stand and the Westgate Street end .
This came about because the WRU were unable to secure enough funding to include the North Stand in the Millennium Stadium , and the National Lottery Commission would not provide any additional funds to be used for the construction of a new ground for Cardiff RFC .
Both the opening and closing ceremonies took place at Cardiff Arms Park , plus all the track and field events , on what had been the greyhound track .
Cardiff Arms Park was a charity match in aid of the Prisoner of War Fund between Welsh and American teams of the U.S. Beaufort & U.S. Jupiter .
Around 25,000 spectators watched international boxing on 1 October 1993 , at the National Stadium with a World Boxing Council ( WBC ) Heavyweight title bout between Lennox Lewis and Frank Bruno .
The first first-class cricket match actually to be held on Cardiff Arms Park was between West of England and East of England , on 20 June 1910 .
Only one List A game was ever played at the ground , and this was only the second match of Cardiff Arms Park type : Glamorgan 's Gillette Cup fixture against Somerset on 22 May 1963 .
Cardiff Arms Park signed a 50-year lease in 1937 , with Cardiff Athletic Club -- the owners of Cardiff Arms Park Park -- having no rights to break the agreement or to review the rental until 50 years expired .
This was one of the three races that formed the triple crown along with the English Greyhound Derby and Scottish Greyhound Derby .
1,128 greyhound fans saw Lillyput Queen , owned by Cardiff Arms Park butcher Malcolm Davies and trained by Freddie Goodman , win the last race .
Later , the National Stadium was also home to the WRU Challenge Cup from 1972 until the match held at the Stadium on 26 April 1997 , at a much reduced capacity , between Cardiff RFC and Swansea RFC .
Cardiff Arms Park is a charity match in aid of the Prisoner of War Fund between Welsh and American teams of the U.S. Beaufort & U.S. Jupiter .
From the AKM Mikhail Kalashnikov developed a squad automatic weapon variant , known as the RPK ( -- Kalashnikov light machine gun ) , and also the PK ( -- Kalashnikov machine gun ) , which used the more powerful 7.62 × 54R cartridge of the Mosin-Nagant rifle .
In 1994 , Peterson rewrote The Realm of Angmar , adapting MUD to MS-DOS ( the basis for many dial-in BBS systems ) , and renamed MUD Swords of Chaos .
They founded the Kesmai company in 1982 and in 1985 an enhanced version of Dungeons of Kesmai , Island of Kesmai , was launched on CompuServe .
TinyMUD , written in C and released in late 1989 , spawned a number of descendants , including TinyMUCK and TinyMUSH .
In 1990 , the release of DikuMUD , which was inspired by AberMUD , led to a virtual explosion of hack and slash MUDs based upon MUD code .
The MUD Institute ( TMI ) was an LPMud opened in February 1992 as a gathering place for people interested in developing LPMud and teaching LPC after it became clear that Lars Pensjö had lost interest in the project .
However , with the increase in computing power and Internet connectivity during the late nineties , and the shift of online gaming to the mass market , the term `` graphical MUD '' fell out of favor , being replaced by MMORPG , Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game , a term coined by Richard Garriott in 1997 .
Puns on the `` wet dirt '' meaning of `` mud '' are endemic , as with , for example , the names of the ROM ( Rivers of MUD ) , MUCK , MUSH , and CoffeeMUD codebases and the MUD Muddy Waters .
A Muslim , also spelled Muslim , is an adherent of Islam , a monotheistic Abrahamic religion based on the Qur ` an -- which Muslim consider the verbatim word of God as revealed to prophet Muhammad -- and , with lesser authority than the Qur ` an , the teachings and practices of Muhammad as recorded in traditional accounts , called hadith .
The word muslim ( , ; , , or moslem , ) is the participle of the same verb of which islām is the infinitive , based on the triliteral S-L-M `` to be whole , intact '' .
The Qur ` an describes many prophets and messengers as well as their respective followers as Muslim : Adam , Noah , Abraham , Jacob , Moses and Jesus and his apostles are all considered to be Muslim in the Qur ` an .
The Qur ` an states that these men were Muslims because Muslim submitted to God , preached His message and upheld His values , which included praying , charity , fasting and pilgrimage .
Thus , in Surah 3:52 of the Qur ` an , Jesus ' disciples tell Jesus , `` We believe in God ; and you be our witness that we are Muslims ( wa-shahad be anna muslimūn ) '' .
About 13 % of Muslim live in Indonesia , the largest Muslim country , 25 % in South Asia , 20 % in the Middle East , 2 % in Central Asia , 4 % in the remaining South East Asian countries , and 15 % in Sub-saharan Africa .
MUSH has forked over the years and there are now different varieties with different features , although most have strong similarities and one who is fluent in coding one variety can switch to coding for the other with only a little effort .
A primary feature of MUSH codebases that tends to distinguish MUSH from other multi-user environments is the ability , by default , of any player to extend the world by creating new rooms or objects and specifying their behavior in the MUSH 's internal scripting language .
The programming language for MUSH , usually referred to as `` MUSHcode '' or `` softcode '' ( to distinguish MUSH from `` hardcode '' -- the language in which the MUSH server MUSH is written ) was developed by Larry Foard .
All MUSH servers provide a flag that , when set on a player , bestows the ability to view and modify nearly everything in MUSH database .
( Without proofreading error rates are a thousandfold higher ; because many viruses rely on DNA and RNA polymerases that lack proofreading ability , Microevolution experience higher mutation rates .
Therefore , the optimal mutation rate for a species is a trade-off between costs of a high mutation rate , such as deleterious mutations , and the metabolic costs of maintaining systems to reduce the mutation rate , such as DNA repair enzymes .
Another advantage of duplicating a gene ( or even an entire genome ) is that this increases redundancy ; this allows one gene in the pair to acquire a new function while the other copy performs the original function .
Gene transfer between species includes the formation of hybrid organisms and horizontal gene transfer .
If this pollen is able to fertilise the plant where Microevolution ends up and produce viable offspring , then the alleles in the pollen have effectively been able to move from the population on one side of the highway to the other .
MySQL is a popular choice of database for use in web applications , and is a central component of the widely used LAMP open source web application software stack ( and other ` AMP ' stacks ) .
Users may use the included command line tools , or use MySQL `` front-ends '' , desktop software and web applications that create and manage MySQL databases , build database structures , back up data , inspect status , and work with data records .
The official set of MySQL front-end tools , MySQL Workbench is actively developed by Oracle , and is freely available for use .
Similar to other third-party packages , but still considered the authoritative MySQL front end , MySQL Workbench lets users manage database design & modeling , SQL development ( replacing MySQL Query Browser ) and Database administration ( replacing MySQL Administrator ) .
Third-party proprietary and free graphical administration applications ( or `` front ends '' ) are available that integrate with MySQL and enable users to work with database structure and data visually.Other available proprietary MySQL front ends include dbForge Studio for MySQL , DBStudio , Epictetus , Microsoft Access , Oracle SQL Developer , SchemaBank , SQLPro SQL Client , Toad Data Modeler .
Much of MySQL 's appeal originates in MySQL relative simplicity and ease of use , which is enabled by an ecosystem of open source tools such as phpMyAdmin .
MySQL are offered under GPL version 2 , beginning from 28 June 2000 ( which in 2009 has been extended with a FLOSS License Exception ) or to use a proprietary license .
During the MySQL Users Conference in April 2006 , MySQL issued a press release that confirmed that MySQL and Innobase OY agreed to a `` multi-year '' extension of their licensing agreement .
Sun 's board of directors unanimously approved the deal , MySQL was also approved by Sun 's shareholders , and by the U.S. government on 20 August 2009 .
At the same time , several Free Software opinion leaders ( including Eben Moglen , Pamela Jones of Groklaw , Jan Wildeboer and Carlo Piana , who also acted as co-counsel in the merger regulation procedure ) advocated for the unconditional approval of the merger .
But , as revealed by Wikileaks , the US Department of Justice and Antitrust , at the request of Oracle , pressured the EU to unconditionally approve the merger .
Modernism , in Modernism broadest definition , is modern thought , character , or practice .
In particular the development of modern industrial societies and the rapid growth of cities , followed then by the horror of World War I , were among the factors that shaped Modernism .
The modernist movement , at the beginning of the 20th century , marked the first time that the term avant-garde , with which the movement was labeled until the word `` modernism '' prevailed , was used for the arts ( rather than in Modernism original military and political context ) .
This facilitates consideration of specific reactions to the use of technology in the First World War , and anti-technological and nihilistic aspects of the works of diverse thinkers and artists spanning the period from Friedrich Nietzsche ( 1844 -- 1900 ) to Samuel Beckett ( 1906 -- 1989 ) .
This stabilizing synthesis of the Realist political and Romantic aesthetic ideology , was called by various names : in Great Britain it is the Victorian era .
Clement Greenberg describes the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood as proto-Modernists : `` There the proto-Modernists were , of all people , the pre-Raphaelites ( and even before them , as proto-proto-Modernists , the German Nazarenes .
Together these different reactions , challenged the comforting ideas of certainty derived from a belief in civilization , history , or pure reason .
Indeed from the 1870s onward , the idea that history and civilization were inherently progressive , and that progress was always good ( and had no sharp breaks ) , came under increasing attack .
Historians , and writers in different disciplines , have suggested various dates as starting points for modernism .
William Everdell , for example , has argued that Modernism began in the 1870s , when metaphorical ( or ontological ) continuity began to yield to the discrete with mathematician Richard Dedekind 's ( 1831 -- 1916 ) Dedekind cut , and Ludwig Boltzmann 's ( 1844 -- 1906 ) statistical thermodynamics .
While most were in standard styles , but by inferior artists , the work of Manet attracted tremendous attention , and opened commercial doors to the movement .
The human misery of crowded industrial cities , as well as , on the other hand , the new possibilities created by science , brought changes that shook European civilization , which had , until then , regarded Modernism as having a continuous and progressive line of development from the Renaissance .
The changes that took place at the beginning of the 20th-century are emphasized by the fact that many modern disciplines , including sciences such as physics , mathematics , neuroscience and economics , and arts such as ballet and architecture , call their pre-20th century forms classical .
According to Freud 's ideas , all subjective reality was based on the play of basic drives and instincts , through which the outside world was perceived .
This represented a break with the past , in that previously it was believed that external and absolute reality could impress Modernism , as Modernism was , on an individual , as , for example , in John Locke 's ( 1632 -- 1704 ) empiricism , which saw the mind beginning as a tabula rasa ( An Essay Concerning Human Understanding , 1690 ) .
Freud 's description of subjective states , involving an unconscious mind full of primal impulses , and counterbalancing self-imposed restrictions , was combined by Carl Jung ( 1875 -- 1961 ) with the idea of the collective unconscious , with which the conscious mind fought or embraced .
Out of this collision of ideals derived from Romanticism , and an attempt to find a way for knowledge to explain that which was as yet unknown , came the first wave of works , which , while their authors considered them extensions of existing trends in art , broke the implicit contract with the general public that artists were the interpreters and representatives of bourgeois culture and ideas .
Young painters such as Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse were causing a shock with their rejection of traditional perspective as the means of structuring paintings -- a step that none of the impressionists , not even Cézanne , had taken .
In 1907 , as Picasso was painting Les Demoiselles d'Avignon , Oskar Kokoschka was writing Mörder , Hoffnung der Frauen ( Murderer , Hope of Women ) , the first Expressionist play ( produced with scandal in 1909 ) , and Arnold Schoenberg was composing his String Quartet No. 2 in F-sharp minor , his first composition `` without a tonal center '' .
This work , along with La Ville de Paris ( City of Paris ) by Robert Delaunay , is the largest and most ambitious Cubist painting undertaken during the pre-War Cubist period .
Artists such as Klimt and Cézanne , and composers such as Mahler and Richard Strauss were `` the terrible moderns '' -- those more avant-garde were more heard of than heard .
The newfound ` machine aesthetic ' contradicted the old romantic , traditional styles , instead focusing on sharp lines , multi-facets and the lack of a human element .
However , the Great War and its subsequent events were the cataclysmic upheavals that late 19th-century artists such as Brahms had worried about , and avant-gardists had embraced .
Moreover , the view that mankind was making slow and steady moral progress came to seem ridiculous in the face of the senseless slaughter .
By 1930 , Modernism won a place in the establishment , including the political and artistic establishment , although by this time Modernism Modernism had changed .
In the end science and scientific rationality , often taking models from the 18th-century Enlightenment , came to be seen as the source of logic and stability , while the basic primitive sexual and unconscious drives , along with the seemingly counter-intuitive workings of the new machine age , were taken as the basic emotional substance .
Modernism explicitly of ` the right ' include Salvador Dalí , Wyndham Lewis , T. S. Eliot , Ezra Pound , the Dutch author Menno ter Braak and others .
In poetry T. S. Eliot , E. E. Cummings , and Wallace Stevens were writing from the 1920s until the 1950s .
Though The Oxford Encyclopedia of British Literature sees Modernism ending by c. 1939 , with regard to British and American literature , `` When ( if ) Modernism petered out and postmodernism began has been contested almost as hotly as when the transition from Victorianism to Modernism occurred '' .
Clement Greenberg sees Modernism ending in the 1930s , with the exception of the visual and performing arts , but with regard to music , Paul Griffiths notes that , while Modernism `` seemed to be a spent force '' by the late 1920s , after World War II , `` a new generation of composers - Boulez , Barraqué , Babbitt , Nono , Stockhausen , Xenakis '' revived modernism .
Amongst modernists still publishing were Wallace Stevens , Gottfried Benn , T. S. Eliot , Anna Akhmatova , William Faulkner , Dorothy Richardson , John Cowper Powys , and Ezra Pound .
In Paris ( the former center of European culture and the former capital of the art world ) the climate for art was a disaster .
Like Pablo Picasso 's innovative reinventions of painting and sculpture in the early 20th century via cubism and constructed sculpture , Pollock redefined the way art gets made .
Artists realized that Jackson Pollock 's process -- placing unstretched raw canvas on the floor where it could be attacked from all four sides using artistic and industrial materials ; dripping and throwing linear skeins of paint ; drawing , staining , and brushing ; using imagery and non-imagery -- essentially blasted artmaking beyond any prior boundary .
Rereadings into abstract art by art historians such as Linda Nochlin , Griselda Pollock and Catherine de Zegher critically show , however , that pioneering women artists who produced major innovations in modern art had been ignored by official accounts of Modernism history .
The early works of David Hockney and the works of Richard Hamilton and Eduardo Paolozzi ( who created the groundbreaking I was a Rich Man 's Plaything , 1947 ) are considered seminal examples in the movement .
Hal Foster , in his essay The Crux of Minimalism , examines the extent to which Donald Judd and Robert Morris both acknowledge and exceed Greenbergian Modernism in their published definitions of minimalism .
In the 1960s the work of the avant-garde minimalist composers La Monte Young , Philip Glass , Steve Reich , and Terry Riley also achieved prominence in the New York art world .
This and Duchamp 's other works are generally labelled as Dada .
The Judson Dance Theater , located at the Judson Memorial Church , New York ; and the Judson dancers , notably Yvonne Rainer , Trisha Brown , Elaine Summers , Sally Gross , Simonne Forti , Deborah Hay , Lucinda Childs , Steve Paxton and others ; collaborated with artists Robert Morris , Robert Whitman , John Cage , Robert Rauschenberg , and engineers like Billy Klüver .
Andreas Huyssen criticises attempts to claim Fluxus for postmodernism as `` either the master-code of postmodernism or the ultimately unrepresentable art movement -- as Modernism were , postmodernism 's sublime '' .
These oppositions are inherent to modernism : Modernism is in Modernism broadest cultural sense the assessment of the past as different to the modern age , the recognition that the world was becoming more complex , and that the old `` final authorities '' ( God , government , science , and reason ) were subject to intense critical scrutiny .
Some even argue that Modernism in literature and art functioned to sustain an elite culture which excluded the majority of the population .
For this reason many modernists of the post-war generation felt that Modernism were the most important bulwark against totalitarianism , the `` canary in the coal mine '' , whose repression by a government or other group with supposed authority represented a warning that individual liberties were being threatened .
In Britain , a youth sub-culture emerged calling Modernism `` modernist '' ( usually shortened to Mod ) , following such representative music groups as The Who and The Kinks .
This merging of consumer and high versions of Modernism culture led to a radical transformation of the meaning of `` modernism '' .
Second , Modernism demonstrated that the distinction between elite modernist and mass consumerist culture had lost Modernism precision .
Writers such as Paul H. Ray and Sherry Ruth Anderson , in ( 2000 ) , Fredrick Turner in A Culture of Hope and Lester Brown in Plan B , have articulated a critique of the basic idea of Modernism Modernism -- that individual creative expression should conform to the realities of technology .
Marshall McLuhan mother , however , felt that Marshall McLuhan conversion would hurt Marshall McLuhan career and was inconsolable .
Hugh Kenner was one of Marshall McLuhan students and Canadian economist and communications scholar Harold Innis was a university colleague who had a strong influence on McLuhan 's work .
Marshall McLuhan and Corinne McLuhan had six children : Eric , twins Mary and Teresa , Stephanie , Elizabeth and Michael .
Allen 's Oscar-winning motion picture Annie Hall ( 1977 ) had McLuhan in a cameo as Marshall McLuhan : a pompous academic arguing with Allen in a cinema queue is silenced by McLuhan suddenly appearing and saying , `` You know nothing of Marshall McLuhan work '' .
Modern life is characterized by the reemergence of grammar as its most salient feature -- a trend Marshall McLuhan felt was exemplified by the New Criticism of Richards and Leavis .
This followed naturally from Marshall McLuhan earlier work as both dialectic and rhetoric in the classical trivium aimed at persuasion .
Marshall McLuhan ( written in 1961 , first published in Canada by University of Toronto Press in 1962 ) is a pioneering study in the fields of oral culture , print culture , cultural studies , and media ecology .
The main concept of Marshall McLuhan argument ( later elaborated upon in The Medium is the Massage ) is that new technologies ( like alphabets , printing presses , and even speech itself ) exert a gravitational effect on cognition , which in turn affects social organization : print technology changes our perceptual habits ( `` visual homogenizing of experience '' ) , which in turn affects social interactions ( `` fosters a mentality that gradually resists all but a. .
Marshall McLuhan frequently quoted Walter Ong 's Ramus , Method , and the Decay of Dialogue ( 1958 ) , which evidently had prompted Marshall McLuhan to write The Gutenberg Galaxy .
However , Marshall McLuhan hot and cool exist on a continuum : they are more correctly measured on a scale than as dichotomous terms .
Umberto Eco , for instance , contends that McLuhan 's medium conflates channels , codes , and messages under the overarching term of the medium , confusing the vehicle , internal code , and content of a given message in Marshall McLuhan framework .
Dwight McDonald , in turn , reproached McLuhan for Marshall McLuhan focus on television and for Marshall McLuhan `` aphoristic '' style of prose , which Marshall McLuhan believes left Understanding Media filled with `` contradictions , non-sequiturs , facts that are distorted and facts that are not facts , exaggerations , and chronic rhetorical vagueness '' .
The work of Marshall McLuhan was a particular culmination of an aesthetic theory which became , negatively , a social theory ... It is an apparently sophisticated technological determinism which has the significant effect of indicating a social and cultural determinism ... If the medium - whether print or television -- is the cause , of all other causes , all that men ordinarily see as history is at once reduced to effects .
Fiore , at the time a prominent graphic designer and communications consultant , set about composing the visual illustration of these effects which were compiled by Jerome Agel .
Marshall McLuhan archetype `` is a quoted extension , medium , technology or environment '' .
The satellite medium , Marshall McLuhan states , encloses the Earth in a man-made environment , which `` ends ` Nature ' and turns the globe into a repertory theater to be programmed '' .
The resonant interval is the invisible borderline between Visual and Acoustic Space .
Robots-androids will have much greater flexibility than humans have had until now , in both mind and body .
And this flexibility of androids ( what Marshall McLuhan calls robotism ) has a strong affinity with Japanese culture and life .
Marshall McLuhan and Powers criticize the Shannon-Weaver model of communication as emblematic of left-hemisphere bias and linearity , descended from Aristotelean causality .
A third term of The Global Village that Marshall McLuhan and Powers develop at length is The Tetrad .
The Tetrad , with its fourfold Möbius topological structure of enhancement , reversal , retrieval and obsolescence , is mobilized by Marshall McLuhan and Powers to illuminate the media or technological inventions of cash money , the compass , the computer , the database , the satellite , and the global media network .
Much enamoured with Marshall McLuhan work , Feigen and Gossage arranged for Marshall McLuhan to meet with editors of several major New York magazines in May 1965 at the Lombardy Hotel in New York .
Philip Marchand reports that , as a direct consequence of these meetings , McLuhan was offered the use of an office in the headquarters of both Time and Newsweek , any time Marshall McLuhan needed it .
Marshall McLuhan is the `` patron saint '' of Wired Magazine and a quote of his appeared on the masthead for the first ten years of its publication .
Current users of Creative Suite 3 and higher get discounts for the Creative Cloud service for a limited time , after which the subscription cost increases .
Multiple inheritance has been a touchy issue for many years , with opponents pointing to Multiple inheritance increased complexity and ambiguity in situations such as the `` diamond problem '' , where Multiple inheritance may be ambiguous as to which superclass a particular feature is inherited from if more than one superclass implements said feature .
Languages that support multiple inheritance include : C++ , Common Lisp ( via Common Lisp Object System ( CLOS ) ) , EuLisp ( via The EuLisp Object System TELOS ) , Curl , Dylan , Eiffel , Logtalk , Object REXX , Scala ( via use of mixin classes ) , OCaml , Perl , Perl 6 , Python , and Tcl ( via Incremental Tcl ( Incr Tcl ) ) .
The `` diamond problem '' ( sometimes referred to as the `` deadly diamond of death '' ) is an ambiguity that arises when two classes B and C inherit from A , and class D inherits from both B and C .
For example , in the context of GUI software development , a class Button may inherit from both classes Rectangle ( for appearance ) and Clickable ( for functionality/input handling ) , and classes Rectangle and Clickable both inherit from the Object class .
The reason for this is that such languages have at most one implementation of any method at any level in the inheritance chain regardless of the repetition or placement of methods .
According to the Government of Australia 's ` Excellence in Research for Australia ' report , the leading universities in the country for Media studies ( which were ranked well above World standards by the report 's scoring methodology ) are Monash University , QUT , RMIT , University of Melbourne , University of Queensland and UTS .
In the Netherlands , Media studies are split into several academic courses such as ( applied ) communication sciences , communication - and information sciences , communication and media , media and culture or theater , film and television sciences .
Media studies is taught at Key Stages 1 -- 3 , Entry Level , GCSE and at A level and the Scottish Qualifications Authority offers formal qualifications at a number of different levels .
Microprocessor incorporates the functions of a computer 's central processing unit ( CPU ) on a single integrated circuit ( IC ) , or at most a few integrated circuits .
The integration of a whole CPU onto a single chip or on a few chips greatly reduced the cost of processing power .
Each operation of the ALU sets one or more flags in a status register , which indicate the results of the last operation ( zero value , negative number , overflow .
Integration of the floating point unit first as a separate integrated circuit and then as part of the same microprocessor chip , speeded up floating point calculations .
While this required extra logic to handle , for example , carry and overflow within each slice , the result was a system that could handle , say , 32-bit words using integrated circuits with a capacity for only 4 bits each .
In 1968 , Garrett AiResearch ( which employed designers Ray Holt and Steve Geller ) was invited to produce a digital computer to compete with electromechanical systems then under development for the main flight control computer in the US Navy 's new F-14 Tomcat fighter .
According to Parab et al. ( 2007 ) , `` The scientific papers and literature published around 1971 reveal that the MP944 digital processor used for the F-14 Tomcat aircraft of the US Navy qualifies as the first microprocessor .
Microprocessor design indicates a major advance over Intel and two year earlier .
Three of the chips were to make a special-purpose CPU with Microprocessor program stored in ROM and Microprocessor data stored in shift register read-write memory .
Ted Hoff , the Intel engineer assigned to evaluate the project , believed the Busicom design could be simplified by using dynamic RAM storage for data , rather than shift register memory , and a more traditional general-purpose CPU architecture .
The Four-Phase Systems AL1 was an 8-bit bit slice chip containing eight registers and an ALU .
The 8086 and successors had an innovative but limited method of memory segmentation , while the 80286 introduced a full-featured segmented memory management unit ( MMU ) .
An ostensible coprocessor for the 80486SX , the 80487 was actually a complete 80486DX that disabled and replaced the coprocessorless 80486SX that it was installed to upgrade .
The Apple Lisa and Macintosh designs made use of the 68000 , as did a host of other designs in the mid-1980s , including the Atari ST and Commodore Amiga .
The world 's first single-chip fully 32-bit microprocessor , with 32-bit data paths , 32-bit buses , and 32-bit addresses , was the AT&T Bell Labs BELLMAC-32A , with first samples in 1980 , and general production in 1982 After the divestiture of AT&T in 1984 , it was renamed the WE 32000 ( WE for Western Electric ) , and had two follow-on generations , the WE 32100 and WE 32200 .
This is a RISC processor design , which has since come to dominate the 32-bit embedded systems processor space due in large part to Microprocessor power efficiency , Microprocessor licensing model , and Microprocessor wide selection of system development tools .
Semiconductor manufacturers generally license cores such as the ARM11 and integrate them into their own system on a chip products ; only a few such vendors are licensed to modify the ARM cores .
The appearance of RISC processors like the AM29000 and MC88000 ( now both dead ) influenced the architecture of the final core , the NS32764 .
Technically advanced -- with a superscalar RISC core , 64-bit bus , and internally overclocked -- Microprocessor could still execute Series 32000 instructions through real-time translation .
The MIPS R2000 ( 1984 ) and R3000 ( 1989 ) were highly successful 32-bit RISC microprocessors .
Other designs included the interesting Zilog Z80000 , which arrived too late to market to stand a chance and disappeared quickly .
With AMD 's introduction of a 64-bit architecture backwards-compatible with x86 , x86-64 ( also called AMD64 ) , in September 2003 , followed by Intel 's near fully compatible 64-bit extensions ( first called IA-32e or EM64T , later renamed Intel 64 ) , the 64-bit desktop era began .
With operating systems Windows XP x64 , Windows Vista x64 , Windows 7 x64 , Linux , BSD , and Mac OS X that run 64-bit native , the software is also geared to fully utilize the capabilities of such processors .
Existing integer registers are extended as are all related data pathways , but , as was the case with IA-32 , both floating point and vector units had been operating at or above 64 bits for several years .
This effectively multiplies the processor 's potential performance by the number of cores ( as long as the operating system and software is designed to take advantage of more than one processor core ) .
The modern desktop sockets do not support systems with multiple CPUs but very few applications outside of the professional market can make good use of more than four cores and both Intel and AMD currently offer fast quad - and six-core desktop CPUs so this is generally a moot point anyway .
AMD also offers the first and still currently the only eight core desktop CPUs with the FX-8xxx line but anything with more than four cores is generally not very useful in home desktops .
As of 2012 January 24 , these FX processors are generally inferior to similarly priced and sometimes cheaper Intel quad-core Sandy Bridge models .
This is largely because of people using older or mobile computers , both of which have a much lower chance of having more than two cores than newer desktops and because of how most computer users are not heavy users .
Graphics processing units may have no , limited , or general programming facilities .
Also , no typical molecule can be defined for ionic crystals ( salts ) and covalent crystals ( network solids ) , although these are often composed of repeating unit cells that extend either in a plane ( such as in graphene ) or three-dimensionally ( such as in diamond , quartz , or sodium chloride ) .
In Molecule sciences , Molecule consists of a stable system ( bound state ) composed of two or more atoms .
According to Merriam-Webster and the Online Etymology Dictionary , the word `` molecule '' derives from the Latin `` moles '' or small unit of mass .
Spectroscopy does not generally refer to diffraction studies where particles such as neutrons , electrons , or high energy X-rays interact with a regular arrangement of molecules ( as in a crystal ) .
The simplest of Molecule is the hydrogen molecule-ion , H2 + , and the simplest of all the chemical bonds is the one-electron bond .
Whether or not an arrangement of atoms is `` sufficiently stable '' to be considered a molcule is inherently an operational definition .
Regarding the concept of mode as applied to pitch relationships generally , Harold S. Powers describes a continuum between abstract scale and specific tune , with `` most of the area between ... being in the domain of mode '' ( Powers 2001 , § I ,3 ) .
A `` scale '' is an ordered series of pitches that , with the key or tonic .
By the early 19th century , the word `` mode '' had taken on an additional meaning , in reference to the difference between major and minor keys , specified as Musical mode and `` minor mode '' .
In The Republic , Plato uses the term inclusively to encompass a particular type of scale , range and register , characteristic rhythmic pattern , textual subject , etc. ( Mathiesen 2001a , 6 ( iii ) ( e ) ) .
Some treatises also describe `` melic '' composition , `` the employment of the materials subject to harmonic practice with due regard to the requirements of each of the subjects under consideration '' ( Cleonides 1965 , 35 ) -- which , together with the scales , tonoi , and harmoniai resemble elements found in medieval modal theory ( Mathiesen 2001a , 6 ( iii ) ) .
Melic and rhythmic composition ( respectively , melopoiïa and rhuthmopoiïa ) were the processes of selecting and applying the various components of melos and rhythm to create a complete work .
A melody that remains confined to the mode 's ambitus is called `` perfect '' ; if Musical mode falls short of Musical mode , `` imperfect '' ; if Musical mode exceeds Musical mode , `` superfluous '' ; and a melody that combines the ambituses of both the plagal and authentic is said to be in a `` mixed mode '' ( Rockstro 1880 , 343 ) .
Although the earlier ( Greek ) model for the Carolingian system was probably ordered like the Byzantine oktōēchos , with the four authentic modes first , followed by the four plagals , the earliest extant sources for the Latin system are organized in four pairs of authentic and plagal modes sharing the same final : protus authentic/plagal , deuterus authentic/plagal , tritus authentic/plagal , and tetrardus authentic/plagal ( Powers 2001 § II , 1 ( ii ) ) .
The Ionian and Hypoionian modes ( on C ) become in this system modes 13 and 14 ( Rockstro 1880 , 342 ) .
Musical mode indicated a primary pitch ( a final ) ; the organization of pitches in relation to the final ; suggested range ; melodic formulas associated with different modes ; location and importance of cadences ; and affect ( i.e. , emotional effect/character ) .
However , the earliest Western source using the system of eight modes is the Tonary of St Riquier , dated between about 795 and 800 ( Powers 2001 , § II 1 ( ii ) ) .
By definition , all major scales use the same interval sequence T-T-s-T-T-T-s , where `` s '' means a semitone and `` T '' means a whole tone ( two semitones ) .
The example composed of natural notes begins on C , and is also known as the C-major scale : Dorian is the second mode .
As Jim Samson explains , `` Clearly any comparison of medieval and modern modality would recognize that the latter takes place against a background of some three centuries of harmonic tonality , permitting , and in the nineteenth century requiring , a dialogue between modal and diatonic procedure '' ( Samson 1977 , 148 ) .
Zoltán Kodály , Gustav Holst , Manuel de Falla use modal elements as modifications of a diatonic background , while in the music of Debussy and Béla Bartók modality replaces diatonic tonality ( Samson 1977 , ) While the term `` mode '' is still most commonly understood to refer to Ionian , Dorian , Phrygian , Lydian , Mixolydian , Aeolian , or Locrian scales , in modern music theory the word is sometimes applied to scales other than the diatonic .
Scales with a recurring interval pattern smaller than an octave , however , have only as many modes as notes within that subdivision : e.g. , the diminished scale , which is built of alternating whole and half steps , has only two distinct modes , since all odd-numbered modes are equivalent to the first ( starting with a whole step ) and all even-numbered modes are equivalent to the second ( starting with a half step ) .
Mechanics ( Greek ) is the branch of science concerned with the behavior of physical bodies when subjected to forces or displacements , and the subsequent effects of the bodies on Mechanics environment .
It is a branch of classical physics that deals with the particles that are moving either with less velocity or that are at rest .
For example , following the ideas of Greek philosopher and scientist Aristotle , scientists reasoned that a cannonball falls down because Mechanics natural position is in the Earth ; the sun , the moon , and the stars travel in circles around the earth because it is the nature of heavenly objects to travel in perfect circles .
The differences between relativistic and Newtonian mechanics become significant and even dominant as the velocity of a massive body approaches the speed of light .
For instance , in Newtonian mechanics , Newton 's laws of motion specify that , whereas in Relativistic mechanics and Lorentz transformations , which were first discovered by Hendrik Lorentz , ( is the Lorentz factor , which is almost equal to 1 for low speeds ) .
This led to the development of the theory of impetus by 14th century French Jean Buridan , which developed into the modern theories of inertia , velocity , acceleration and momentum .
For instance , the motion of a spacecraft , regarding Mechanics orbit and attitude ( rotation ) , is described by the relativistic theory of classical mechanics , while the analogous movements of an atomic nucleus are described by quantum mechanics .
Mandelbrot set images are made by sampling complex numbers and determining for each whether the result tends towards infinity when a particular mathematical operation is iterated on Mandelbrot set .
The Mandelbrot set has become popular outside mathematics both for Mandelbrot set aesthetic appeal and as an example of a complex structure arising from the application of simple rules , and is one of the best-known examples of mathematical visualization .
The Mandelbrot set has Mandelbrot set place in complex dynamics , a field first investigated by the French mathematicians Pierre Fatou and Gaston Julia at the beginning of the 20th century .
The more colourful pictures usually seen are generated by colouring points not in the set according to how quickly or slowly the sequence diverges to infinity .
As a consequence of the definition of Mandelbrot set , there is a close correspondence between the geometry of Mandelbrot set at a given point and the structure of the corresponding Julia set .
Because no complex number with a real or imaginary part greater than 2 can be part of Mandelbrot set , a common bailout is to escape when either coefficient exceeds 2 .
This function is given by where zn is the value after n iterations and P is the power for which z is raised to in the Mandelbrot set equation ( zn +1 = znP + c , P is generally 2 ) .
The need to remember points costs memory and data management instructions , whereas Mandelbrot set saves computational instructions .
Michael Mann (director) ( born February 5 , 1943 ) is an American film director , screenwriter , and producer .
For Michael Mann (director) work , Michael Mann (director) has received nominations from international organizations and juries , including those at the British Academy of Film and Television Arts , Cannes and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences .
Michael Mann (director) has directed major films , including Heat , Collateral and The Insider .
Michael Mann (director) was born in Chicago of Jewish heritage , the son of grocers Esther and Jack Mann .
Michael Mann (director) received a B.A. in English at the University of Wisconsin -- Madison where Michael Mann (director) developed interests in history , philosophy and architecture .
In a recent L.A. Weekly interview , Michael Mann (director) describes the film 's impact on Michael Mann (director) : `` It said to Michael Mann (director) whole generation of filmmakers that you could make an individual statement of high integrity and have that film be successfully seen by a mass audience all at the same time .
Michael Mann (director) received an Emmy in 1979 for Outstanding Writing in a Limited Series or a Special for The Jericho Mile .
Michael Mann (director) was the recipient of the Humanitas Prize and the Writers Guild of America 's Paul Selvin Award in 2000 for The Insider .
Michael Mann (director) is an American film director , screenwriter , and producer .
In older nomenclature the main group elements are groups IA and IIA , and groups IIIB to 0 ( CAS groups IIIA to VIIIA ) .
Main group element elements ( with some of the lighter transition metals ) are the most abundant elements on the earth , in the solar system , and in the universe .
Microscopy is the technical field of using microscopes to view samples and objects that can not be seen with the unaided eye ( objects that are not within the resolution range of the normal eye ) .
There are three well-known branches of microscopy : optical , electron , and scanning probe microscopy .
The single lens with Microscopy attachments , or the system of lenses and imaging equipment , along with the appropriate lighting equipment , sample stage and support , makes up the basic light microscope .
Sample illumination is via transmitted white light , i.e. illuminated from below and observed from above .
The simplicity of the technique and the minimal sample preparation required are significant advantages .
Superior and much more expensive is the use of interference contrast .
However , near a refractive boundary ( say a nucleus within the cytoplasm ) , the difference between the ordinary and the extraordinary beam will generate a relief in the image .
Genetically modified cells or organisms directly express the fluorescently tagged proteins , which enables the study of the function of the original protein in vivo .
Knowledge of and chemical control over fluorophore photophysics is at the core of these techniques , by which resolutions of ~ 20 nanometers are regularly obtained .
Serial time encoded amplified microscopy ( STEAM ) is an imaging method that provides ultrafast shutter speed and frame rate , by using optical image amplification to circumvent the fundamental trade-off between sensitivity and speed , and a single-pixel photodetector to eliminate the need for a detector array and readout time limitations The method is at least 1000 times faster than the state-of-the-art CCD and CMOS cameras .
Ultrasonic Force Microscopy ( UFM ) has been developed in order to improve the details and image contrast on `` flat '' areas of interest where AFM images are limited in contrast .
The second ( more recent and more advanced ) technique employs focal plane array detection for infrared chemical imaging , where the image contrast is determined by the response of individual sample regions to particular IR wavelengths selected by the user .
Photographic documentation and drawing of the microscopic images are additional tasks that augment the spectrum of tasks of Microscopy .
Several ` professional amateurs ' were being paid for their sampling trips and microscopic explorations by philanthropists , to keep them amused on the Sunday afternoon ( e.g. , the diatom specialist A. Grunow , being paid by ( among others ) a Belgian industrialist ) .
In 1995 , a loose group of amateur microscopists , drawn from several organizations in the UK and US , founded a site for microscopy based on the knowledge and input of amateur ( perhaps better referred to as ` enthusiast ' ) microscopists .
A microscope ( from the , mikrós , `` small '' and , skopeîn , `` to look '' or `` see '' ) is an instrument used to see objects that are too small for the naked eye .
The first was the scanning tunneling microscope in 1981 , developed by Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer .
Structured illumination can improve resolution by around two to four times and techniques like stimulated Emission Depletion microscopy are approaching the resolution of electron microscopes .
The most common type of microscope ( and the first invented ) is the optical microscope .
This is an optical instrument containing one or more lenses producing an enlarged image of a sample placed in the focal plane .
Typical magnification of a light microscope , assuming visible range light , is up to 1500x with a theoretical resolution limit of around 0.2 micrometres or 200 nanometres .
In addition to , or instead of , directly viewing the object through the eyepieces , a type of sensor similar to those used in a digital camera is used to obtain an image , which is then displayed on a computer monitor .
Alexander 's term , `` debauched sensory appreciation '' describes how the of a circumstance encourages habit design as a person adapts to circumstances or builds skills .
Short-sighted habits that have become harmfully exaggerated over time , such as restricted breathing or other habitually assumed adaptations to past circumstances , will stop after learning to perceive and prevent them .
`` Giving Directions '' is the term for thinking and projecting an anatomically ideal map of how one 's body may be used effortlessly .
A 2002 randomized controlled UK university study of 93 people with clinically confirmed idiopathic Parkinson 's disease found that participants who received Alexander technique lessons reported sustained improvements in their physical functioning , as well as reporting themselves to be less depressed and to have improved attitudes towards themselves .
A factorial randomized trial of 579 UK patients with chronic or recurrent low back pain , reported in the British Journal of Sports Medicine , found that patients who received Alexander technique lessons reported afterwards having less back pain and significant improvement in their quality of life .
In 2001 , an article by four doctors in Kidney International , the official journal of the International Society of Nephrology , noted that although to date there had been no controlled studies performed in patients with autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease with refractory pain , their personal observation in isolated cases indicated that Alexander technique helped relieve patients ' pain , particularly when accompanied with whirlpool treatments and massage therapy .
Later authors maintain that this was done to make this material less accessible to the casual reader and prevent Midrash abuse by detractors .
The Midrash linking a verse to a halakha will often function as a proof of a law 's authenticity ; a correct elucidation of the Torah carries with Midrash the support of the halakhah , and often the reason for the rule 's existence ( although many rabbinical laws have no direct Biblical source ) .
After the return of Jewish refugees from their exile in Babylon , some argue that the Torah was central to Jewish life at home and abroad .
Missouri lies at the intersection of the three greatest rivers of North America , with the confluence of the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers near St. Louis , and the confluence of the Ohio River with the Mississippi north of the Bootheel .
Oftentimes , `` eye dialect '' spellings of Missouri name , such as `` Missour-ee '' or `` Missour-uh , '' are used informally to phonetically distinguish pronunciations .
Missouri highest recorded temperature is 118 F at Warsaw and Union on July 14 , 1954 while the lowest recorded temperature is -40 F also at Warsaw on February 13 , 1905 .
The most recent tornado in the state to cause damage and casualties was the 2011 Joplin tornado , which destroyed roughly 1/3 of the city of Joplin .
Grain production in the Illinois Country was critical to the survival of Lower Louisiana and especially the city of New Orleans .
St. Charles , just west of St. Louis , was the starting point and the return destination of the Lewis and Clark Expedition , which departed up the Missouri River in 1804 to explore the western territories to the Pacific Ocean .
Planters , defined by historians as those holding twenty slaves or more , were concentrated in the counties known as `` Little Dixie '' , in the central part of the state along the Missouri River .
In order to control the flooding of farmland and low-lying villages along the Mississippi , Missouri had completed construction of 140 mi of levees along the river by 1860 .
Between the Civil War and the end of World War II , Missouri transitioned from a rural economy to a hybrid industrial-service-agricultural economy as the Midwest rapidly industrialized .
Over half of Missourians ( 3,294,936 people , or 55.0 % ) live within Missouri two largest metropolitan areas -- St. Louis and Kansas City .
`` American '' includes some of those reported as Native American or African American , but also European Americans whose ancestors have lived in the United States for a considerable time .
There is also a very large and influential Roman Catholic community in some parts of the state ; approximately one out of five Missourians are Roman Catholic , making Missouri the largest single Christian denomination .
Independence , near Kansas City , is the headquarters for the Community of Christ ( formerly the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints ) , and the group Remnant Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints .
Other resources mined are lead , coal , and crushed stone .
There is no inheritance tax and limited Missouri estate tax related to federal estate tax collection .
Missouri has the potential to generate 689,519 GWh/year from 274,000 MW of wind power , and 5,382,000 GWh/year from solar power using 3,188,000 MW of photovoltaics ( PV ) , including 13,081 MW of rooftop photovoltaics .
In 2004 , Missouri became the first state to amend Missouri constitution to define marriage as being between one man and one woman , effectively prohibiting same-sex marriage .
The state had a longer stretch of supporting the winning presidential candidate than any other state , having voted with the nation in every election since 1904 with three exceptions : in 1956 Missouri voted for Democratic Governor Adlai Stevenson of neighboring Illinois over the winner , incumbent Republican President Dwight Eisenhower of neighboring Kansas , and in 2008 it voted for Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona over national winner Senator Barack Obama of neighboring Illinois .
miles ) and Shannon County is second ( 1,004 sq.
The largest county by population ( 2011 estimate ) is St. Louis County ( 998,692 residents ) , with Jackson County second ( 676,360 residents ) , St. Charles third ( 365,151 ) , and St. Louis fourth ( 318,069 ) .
St. Louis is the principal city of the largest metropolitan area in Missouri , comprising 17 counties and the independent city of St. Louis ; eight of those counties lie in the state of Illinois .
Education is compulsory from ages seven to seventeen per Statute 167.031 , RSMo , states that any parent , guardian or other person having custody or control of a child between the ages of seven ( 7 ) and the compulsory attendance age for the district , must ensure that the child is enrolled in and regularly attends public , private , parochial school , home school or a combination of schools for the full term of the school year .
The term `` compulsory attendance age for the district '' shall mean seventeen ( 17 ) years of age or having successfully completed sixteen ( 16 ) credits towards high school graduation in all other cases .
Children between the ages of five ( 5 ) and seven ( 7 ) are not required to be enrolled in school .
Missouri is neither monitored nor regulated by the state 's Department of Elementary and Secondary Education A supplemental education program , the Missouri Scholars Academy , provides an extracurricular learning experience for gifted high school students in the state of Missouri .
Another highly accepted gifted school is the Missouri Academy of Science , Mathematics and Computing , which is located at the Northwest Missouri State University .
These include guitarist and rock pioneer Chuck Berry , singer and actress Josephine Baker , `` Queen of Rock '' Tina Turner , pop singer-songwriter Sheryl Crow , Michael McDonald of the Doobie Brothers , and rappers Nelly , Chingy , and Akon , all of whom are either current or former residents of St. Louis .
This is related to Missouri unofficial motto of `` Show Me , '' whose origin is popularly ascribed to an 1899 speech by Congressman Willard Vandiver , who declared that `` I come from a country that raises corn and cotton , cockleburs and Democrats , and frothy eloquence neither convinces nor satisfies me .
Missouri is the only one whose name is pronounced differently even just among its present-day natives -- the two most common pronunciations being and .
Moses ( , Modern Tiberian ISO 259-3 ; ) was , according to the Hebrew Bible , the Qur ` an , and Baha'i scripture , a religious leader , lawgiver , and prophet , to whom the authorship of the Torah is traditionally attributed .
Other historians maintain that the biographical details and Egyptian background attributed to Moses imply the existence of an historical political and religious leader who was involved in the consolidation of the Hebrew tribes in Canaan towards the end of the Bronze Age .
According to the Book of Exodus , Moses was a son of Amram , a member of the Levite tribe of Israel descended from Jacob , and Moses wife , Jochebed .
Moses soon discovered that the affair was known , and that Pharaoh was likely to put Moses to death for it ; Moses then fled from Egypt across the Sinai Peninsula .
Moses stayed on the mountain for 40 days and nights , a period in which Moses received the Ten Commandments directly from God .
After Aaron had received golden earrings from the people , Moses made a golden calf and said , `` These are your gods , O Israel , who brought you up out of Egypt '' .
A `` solemnity of the Lord '' was proclaimed for the following day , which began in the morning with sacrifices and was followed by revelry .
The Tribe of Reuben , led by Korah , Dathan , Abiram , and 250 Israelite princes , accused Moses and Aaron of raising themselves over the rest of the people .
After many of the people had been bitten by serpents and died , Moses made the brass serpent and mounted it on a pole , and if those who were bitten looked at it , they did not die .
Later , Balaam informed Balak and the Midianites that if they wished to overcome the Israelites for a short interval , they needed to seduce the Israelites to engage in idolatry .
says Moses instructed the Israelite soldiers to kill every Midianite woman , boy , and non-virgin girl , although virgin girls were shared amongst the soldiers .
Moses then went up Mount Nebo to the top of Pisgah , looked over the promised land of Israel spread out before Moses , and died , at the age of one hundred and twenty , according to Talmudic legend on 7 Adar , Moses 120th birthday exactly .
The Book of Deuteronomy ( and ) describes how Moses writes `` torah '' ( instruction ) on a scroll and lays it beside the Ark of the Covenant .
According to theologian John Barclay , the Moses of Artapanus `` clearly bears the destiny of the Jews , and in Moses personal , cultural and military splendor , brings credit to the whole Jewish people '' '' .
Some historians , however , point out the `` apologetic nature of much of Artapanus ' work , '' with Moses addition extra-biblical details , as with references to Jethro : The non-Jewish Jethro expresses admiration for Moses ' gallantry in helping Moses daughters , and chooses to adopt Moses as Moses son .
By such doctrine Moses persuaded a large body of right-minded persons to accompany Moses to the place where Jerusalem now stands ... In Strabo 's writings of the history of Judaism as Moses understood it , Moses describes various stages in its development : from the first stage , including Moses and Moses direct heirs ; to the final stage where `` the Temple of Jerusalem continued to be surrounded by an aura of sanctity '' .
Moses portrayal of Moses is said to be similar to the writing of Hecataeus who `` described Moses as a man who excelled in wisdom and courage '' .
Egyptologist Jan Assmann concludes that Strabo was the historian `` who came closest to a construction of Moses ' religion as monotheism and as a pronounced counter-religion '' .
In addition , Moses `` stresses Moses ' willingness to undergo toil and Moses careful avoidance of bribery .
The Christian saint and religious philosopher Justin Martyr ( 103 -- 165 AD ) drew the same conclusion as Numenius , according to other experts .
A cyclical pattern to these highland settlements , corresponding to the state of the surrounding cultures , suggests that the local Canaanites combined an agricultural and nomadic lifestyles .
There is a wealth of stories and additional information about Moses in the Jewish apocrypha and in the genre of rabbinical exegesis known as Midrash , as well as in the primary works of the Jewish oral law , the Mishnah and the Talmud .
For Christians , Moses -- mentioned more often in the New Testament than any other Old Testament figure -- is often a symbol of God 's law , as reinforced and expounded on in the teachings of Jesus .
Moses , along with Elijah , is presented as meeting with Jesus in all three Gospel accounts of the Transfiguration of Jesus in Matthew 17 , Mark 9 , and Luke 9 , respectively .
In addition , Joseph Smith , Jr. and Oliver Cowdery stated that on April 3 , 1836 , Moses appeared to them in the Kirtland Temple in a glorified , immortal , physical form and bestowed upon them the `` keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth , and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north '' .
Huston Smith ( 1991 ) describes an account in the Qur ` an of meetings in heaven between Moses and Muhammad , which Huston states were `` one of the crucial events in Muhammad 's life , '' and resulted in Muslims observing 5 daily prayers .
Sigmund Freud , in Moses last book , Moses and Monotheism in 1939 , postulated that Moses was an Egyptian nobleman who adhered to the monotheism of Akhenaten .
In the late 18th century the deist Thomas Paine commented at length on Moses ' Laws in The Age of Reason , and gave Moses view that `` the character of Moses , as stated in the Bible , is the most horrid that can be imagined '' , giving the story at as an example .
Most were hunter-gatherers or herders , but some , such as the Mound builders , formed prolific agricultural societies .
In the 19th century , during the height of Manifest Destiny , Mississippi River and several western tributaries , most notably the Missouri , formed pathways for the western expansion of the United States .
Since modern development of the basin began , the Mississippi has also seen Mississippi River share of pollution and environmental problems -- most notably large volumes of agricultural runoff , which has led to the Gulf of Mexico dead zone off the Delta .
While the Missouri River , flowing from the confluence of the Jefferson , Madison and Gallatin Rivers to the Mississippi , is the longest continuously named river in the United States , the serially named river known sequentially as Hellroaring Creek , Red Rock , Beaverhead , Jefferson , Missouri , Middle Mississippi , and Lower Mississippi , as one continuous waterway , is the longest river in North America and the third or fourth longest river in the world .
The name `` Itasca '' is a combination of the last four letters of the Latin word for truth ( veritas ) and the first two letters of the Latin word for head ( caput ) .
At the confluence of the Ohio and the Middle Mississippi , the Ohio is the bigger river , with Mississippi River long-term mean discharge at Cairo , Illinois being , while the long-term mean discharge of the Mississippi at Thebes , Illinois ( just upriver from Cairo ) is .
This occurs because the deposits of silt and sediment begin to clog Mississippi River channel , raising the river 's level and causing Mississippi River to eventually find a steeper , more direct route to the Gulf of Mexico .
The currently active delta lobe is called the Birdfoot Delta , after Mississippi River shape , or the Balize Delta , after La Balize , Louisiana , the first French settlement at the mouth of the Mississippi .
Since this event was an avulsion , rather than the effect of incremental erosion and deposition , the state line remains located in the old channel .
The New Madrid Seismic Zone , along the Mississippi River near New Madrid , Missouri , between Memphis and St. Louis , is related to an aulacogen ( failed rift ) that formed at the same time as the Gulf of Mexico .
Substantial parts of both Minnesota and Louisiana are on either side of Mississippi River , although Mississippi River defines part of the boundary of each of these states .
Mississippi River spanned the river between the Rock Island Arsenal in Illinois and Davenport , Iowa .
A series of 29 locks and dams on the upper Mississippi , most of which were built in the 1930s , is designed primarily to maintain a 9 ft deep channel for commercial barge traffic .
The lakes formed are also used for recreational boating and fishing .
The Rock Island Rapids were between Rock Island and Moline , Illinois .
Dam 26 at Alton , Illinois , which had structural problems , was replaced by the Mel Price Lock and Dam in 1990 .
A network of trade routes referred to as the Hopewell interaction sphere was active along the waterways between about 200 and 500 CE , spreading common cultural practices over the entire area between the Gulf of Mexico and the Great Lakes .
The most prominent of these , now called Cahokia , was occupied between about 600 and 1400 CE and at Mississippi River peak numbered between 8,000 and 40,000 inhabitants , larger than London , England of that time .
After the expeditions by Giacomo Beltrami and Henry Schoolcraft , the longest stream above the juncture of the Crow Wing River and Gichi-ziibi was named `` Mississippi River '' .
The Treaty of Paris ( 1763 ) gave Great Britain rights to all land east of Mississippi River and Spain rights to land west of Mississippi River .
When France then sold the Louisiana Territory to the US in 1803 , a dispute arose again between Spain and the U.S. on which parts of West Florida exactly had Spain ceded to France , which would in turn decide which parts of West Florida were now U.S. property versus Spanish property .
The colonization of the area was barely slowed by the three earthquakes in 1811 and 1812 , estimated at approximately 8 on the Richter magnitude scale , that were centered near New Madrid , Missouri .
The remaining major Confederate stronghold was on the heights overlooking the river at Vicksburg , Mississippi , and the Union 's Vicksburg Campaign ( December 1862 to July , 1863 ) , and the fall of Port Hudson , completed control of the lower Mississippi River .
The sport of water skiing was invented on the river in a wide region between Minnesota and Wisconsin known as Lake Pepin .
Men in Black ( MIB ) , in American popular culture and in UFO conspiracy theories , are men dressed in black suits who claim to be government agents who harass or threaten UFO witnesses to keep them quiet about what Men in Black have seen .
This observation might suggest that the `` gigglers '' were possibly , though not necessarily , pranksters , as various forms of unexpected , inappropriate , or even bizarre ( as in robotic ) behavior seem to be hallmarks of these mysterious beings .
Even so , the term `` the black man '' was used for centuries in reference to the Devil , up until contemporary times when `` black man '' was used to replace the term `` Negro '' and the satanic sense was lost .
In Washington Irving 's story `` The Devil and Tom Walker '' set in 1727 , Irving tells how Tom asks `` the black man '' who he is .
Men in Black ( 1997 ) , starring Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith as Agent K and Agent J respectively , was based on Lowell Cunningham 's comic book about a secret organization that monitors and suppresses alien activity on Earth -- Men in Black from Aircel Comics .
A monomer ( from Greek mono `` one '' and meros `` part '' ) is a molecule that may bind chemically to other molecules to form a polymer .
Friedrich Meves , in 1904 , made the first recorded observation of mitochondria in plants ( Nymphaea alba ) and in 1908 , along with Claudius Regaud , suggested that they contain proteins and lipids .
Over time the fractionation method was tweaked , improving the quality of the mitochondria isolated and other elements of cell respiration were determined to occur in Mitochondrion .
Mitochondrion also showed a second membrane inside the mitochondria that folded up in ridges dividing up the inner chamber and that the size and shape of the mitochondria varied from cell to cell .
The intermembrane space is the space between the outer membrane and the inner membrane .
Because Mitochondrion is freely permeable to small molecules , the concentrations of small molecules such as ions and sugars in the intermembrane space is the same as the cytosol .
The mitochondria-associated ER membrane ( MAM ) is another structural element that is increasingly recognized for Mitochondrion critical role in cellular physiology and homeostasis .
Once considered a technical snag in cell fractionation techniques , the alleged ER vesicle contaminants that invariably appeared in the Mitochondrion fraction have been re-identified as membranous structures derived from the MAM -- the interface between mitochondria and the ER .
Though often seen as static , isolated ` powerhouses ' hijacked for cellular metabolism through an ancient endosymbiotic event , the evolution of the MAM underscores the extent to which mitochondria have been integrated into overall cellular physiology , with intimate physical and functional coupling to the endomembrane system .
In contrast to the standard vesicular mechanism of lipid transfer , evidence indicates that the physical proximity of the ER and Mitochondrion membranes at the MAM allows for lipid flipping between opposed bilayers .
The fate of these puffs -- in particular , whether Mitochondrion remain restricted to isolated locales or integrated into Ca2 + waves for propagation throughout the cell -- is determined in large part by MAM dynamics .
This Ca2 + tunneling occurs through the low-affinity Ca2 + receptor VDAC1 , which recently has been shown to be physically tethered to the IP3R clusters on the ER membrane and enriched at the MAM .
Recently advances in the identification of the tethers between the Mitochondrion and ER membranes suggest that the scaffolding function of the molecular elements involved is secondary to other , non-structural functions .
Coupling between these organelles is not simply structural but functional as well and critical for overall cellular physiology and homeostasis .
Mitochondrion can be found nestled between myofibrils of muscle or wrapped around the sperm flagellum .
This is done by oxidizing the major products of glucose , pyruvate , and NADH , which are produced in the cytosol .
The citric acid cycle oxidizes the acetyl-CoA to carbon dioxide , and , in the process , produces reduced cofactors ( three molecules of NADH and one molecule of FADH2 ) that are a source of electrons for the electron transport chain , and a molecule of GTP ( that is readily converted to an ATP ) .
Although the specific mechanisms between mitochondria and the cell cycle regulation is not well understood , studies have shown that low energy cell cycle checkpoints monitor the energy capability before committing to another round of cell division .
The Mitochondrion genome codes for some RNAs of ribosomes , and the twenty-two tRNAs necessary for the translation of messenger RNAs into protein .
In general , Mitochondrion DNA lacks introns , as is the case in the human Mitochondrion genome ; however , introns have been observed in some eukaryotic Mitochondrion DNA , such as that of yeast and protists , including Dictyostelium discoideum .
In higher plants , it was thought that CGG encoded for tryptophan and not arginine ; however , the codon in the processed RNA was discovered to be the UGG codon , consistent with the universal genetic code for tryptophan .
In such examples , and in contrast to the situation in many single celled eukaryotes , mitochondria are apparently randomly distributed to the daughter cells during the division of the cytoplasm .
In contrast , Mitochondrion , and therefore the Mitochondrion DNA , usually come from the egg only .
The relatively large evolutionary distance between the Mitochondrion DNA sequences of Neanderthals and living humans has been interpreted as evidence for lack of interbreeding between Neanderthals and anatomically modern humans .
Diseases such as Kearns-Sayre syndrome , Pearson 's syndrome , and progressive external ophthalmoplegia are thought to be due to large-scale mtDNA rearrangements , whereas other diseases such as MELAS syndrome , Leber 's hereditary optic neuropathy , myoclonic epilepsy with ragged red fibers ( MERRF ) , and others are due to point mutations in mtDNA .
The decreased intra-mitochondrial calcium concentration increases dehydrogenase activation and ATP synthesis .
In the Japanese novel Parasite Eve and the associated manga and video games , various characters are able to manipulate the energies contained within Mitochondrion mitochondria , generating a wide array of effects on other living creatures .
Minimax ( sometimes minmax ) is a decision rule used in decision theory , game theory , statistics and philosophy for minimizing the possible loss for a worst case ( maximum loss ) scenario .
Some choices are dominated by others and can be eliminated : A will not choose A3 since either A1 or A2 will produce a better result , no matter what B chooses ; B will not choose B3 since some mixtures of B1 and B2 will produce a better result , no matter what A chooses .
A simple version of Minimax , stated below , deals with games such as tic-tac-toe , where each player can win , lose , or draw .
At level 3 , the algorithm will choose , for each node , the smallest of the child node values , and assign Minimax to that same node ( e.g. the node on the left will choose the minimum between `` 10 '' and '' + ∞ '' , therefore assigning the value `` 10 '' to Minimax ) .
The algorithm continues evaluating the maximum and minimum values of the child nodes alternately until Minimax reaches the root node , where Minimax chooses the move with the largest value ( represented in the figure with a blue arrow ) .
Further , minimax only requires ordinal measurement ( that outcomes be compared and ranked ) , not interval measurements ( that outcomes include `` how much better or worse '' ) , and returns ordinal data , using only the modeled outcomes : the conclusion of a minimax analysis is : `` this strategy is minimax , as the worst case is ( outcome ) , which is less bad than any other strategy '' .
Rawls defined this principle as the rule which states that social and economic inequalities should be arranged so that `` Minimax are to be of the greatest benefit to the least-advantaged members of society '' .
The root mni ( also spelled mini or minne ) means `` water '' .
Minnesota contains some of the oldest rocks found on earth , gneisses some 3.6 billion years old , or 80 % as old as the planet .
Following a period of volcanism 1.1 billion years ago , Minnesota geological activity has been more subdued , with no volcanism or mountain formation , but with repeated incursions of the sea , which left behind multiple strata of sedimentary rock .
These glaciers covered all of Minnesota except the far southeast , an area characterized by steep hills and streams that cut into the bedrock .
Much of the remainder of Minnesota of the northeast has 50 feet ( 15 m ) or more of glacial till left behind as the last glaciers retreated .
Minnesota bed created the fertile Red River valley , and Minnesota outflow , glacial River Warren , carved the valley of the Minnesota River and the Upper Mississippi downstream from Fort Snelling .
Much of Minnesota northern forest underwent logging at some time , leaving only a few patches of old growth forest today in areas such as in the Chippewa National Forest and the Superior National Forest where the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness has some of unlogged land .
The record high and low span is 174 degrees Fahrenheit ( 96 ° C ) ( from -60 F at Tower on February 2 , 1996 to 114 F at Moorhead on July 6 , 1936 ) .
The Mississippi National River and Recreation Area ( MNRRA ) , is a 72-mile-long ( 116 km ) corridor along the Mississippi River through the Minneapolis -- St. Paul Metropolitan Area connecting a variety of sites of historic , cultural , and geologic interest .
Planting became more specialized with hybridization of corn and wheat , and the use of farm machinery such as tractors and combines became the norm .
Saint Paul , located in east-central Minnesota along the banks of the Mississippi River , has been Minnesota capital city since 1849 , first as capital of the Territory of Minnesota , and then as state capital since 1858 .
Of these only Rochester , Duluth , and Saint Cloud are outside the Twin Cities metropolitan area .
Hispanics or Latinos ( of any race ) made up 4.7 % of the population .
The majority of Minnesotans are Protestants , including a significant Lutheran affiliation owing to Minnesota largely Northern European ethnic makeup , though Roman Catholics ( of largely German , Irish , and Slavic descent ) make up the largest single Christian denomination .
In 2008 , thirty-three of the United States ' top 1,000 publicly traded companies ( by revenue ) were headquartered in Minnesota , including Target , UnitedHealth Group , 3M , Medtronic , General Mills , U.S. Bancorp , Ameriprise , Hormel , Land O ' Lakes , SuperValu , Best Buy and Valspar .
In 2005 there were more than 310 service stations supplying E85 fuel , comprising 85 % ethanol and 15 % gasoline .
In 2008 , Minnesotans paid 10.2 % of their income in state and local taxes ; the US average was 9.7 % .
Local television had the satirical show The Bedtime Nooz in the 1960s , while area natives Lizz Winstead and Craig Kilborn helped create the increasingly influential Daily Show decades later .
Appeals from the trial courts and challenges to certain governmental decisions are heard by the Minnesota Court of Appeals , consisting of nineteen judges who typically sit in three-judge panels .
The seven-justice Minnesota Supreme Court hears all appeals from the Tax Court , the Workers ' Compensation Court of Appeals , first-degree murder convictions , and discretionary appeals from the Court of Appeals ; it also has original jurisdiction over election disputes .
The Reform Party , now the Independence Party , was able to elect former mayor of Brooklyn Park and professional wrestler Jesse Ventura to the governorship in 1998 .
The Green Party , while no longer having major party status , has a large presence in municipal government , notably in Minneapolis and Duluth , where it competes directly with the DFL party for local offices .
Official `` Major party '' status in Minnesota ( which grants state funding for elections ) is reserved to parties whose candidates receive 5 % or more of the vote in any statewide election ( e.g. , Governor , Secretary of State , U.S. President ) .
There are currently 39 analog broadcast stations and 23 digital channels broadcast over Minnesota .
Two of the largest public radio networks , Minnesota Public Radio ( MPR ) and Public Radio International ( PRI ) , are based in Minnesota .
The University of Minnesota-owned station is still on the air , and since 1993 broadcasts a college rock format .
Swimmer Tom Malchow won an Olympic gold medal in the 2000 Summer games and a silver medal in 1996 .
Minnesota has more miles of bike trails than any other state , and a growing network of hiking trails , including the 235 mi Superior Hiking Trail in the northeast .
Farther on , Missouri River passes through the Fort Peck Dam , and immediately downstream , the Milk River joins from the north .
While Missouri River continues south , eventually reaching Oahe Dam in South Dakota , the Grand , Moreau and Cheyenne Rivers all join the Missouri from the west .
Missouri River then proceeds to form the boundary of South Dakota and Nebraska , then after being joined by the James River from the north , forms the Iowa -- Nebraska boundary .
Downstream , Missouri River begins to define the Nebraska -- Missouri border , then flows between Missouri and Kansas .
The river then rounds the northern side of St. Louis to join the Mississippi River on the border between Missouri and Illinois .
However , including the longest headwaters tributaries , the 453 mi Republican River and the 156 mi Arikaree River , brings the total length to 749 mi .
When combined with the lower Mississippi , the Missouri and Missouri River headwaters form part of the fourth-longest river system in the world , at 3745 mi .
The Missouria or Missouri ( in Missouria own language , Niúachi , also spelled Niutachi ) are a Native American tribe that originated in the Great Lakes region of United States before European contact .
By 1600 , the Missouria lived near the confluence of the Grand and Missouri rivers , where Missouria settled through the 18th century .
Most survivors reunited with the Otoe , while some joined the Osage and Kansa .
After a smallpox outbreak in 1829 , fewer than 100 Missouria survived , and Missouria all joined the Otoe .
Under the Dawes Act , by 1907 members of the tribes were registered and allotted individual plots of land per household .
The Curtis Act required the disbanding of tribal courts and governments in order to assimilate the people and prepare the territory for statehood , but Missouria created their own court system in 1900 .
Most famous of these are the V-1 flying bomb and V-2 , both of which used a simple mechanical autopilot to keep the missile flying along a pre-chosen route .
Less well known were a series of anti-shipping and anti-aircraft missiles , typically based on a simple radio control system directed by the operator .
Whether a guided missile uses a targeting system , a guidance system or both , Missile needs a flight system .
Rockets are generally of the solid fuel type for ease of maintenance and fast deployment , although some larger ballistic missiles use liquid fuel rockets .
Some missiles may have additional propulsion from another source at launch ; for example the V1 was launched by a catapult and the MGM-51 was fired out of a tank gun ( using a smaller charge than would be used for a shell ) .
Many weapons are designed to be launched from both surface or Missile , and a few are designed to attack either surface or air targets ( such as the ADATS missile ) .
By 1944 US and British air forces were sending huge air fleets over occupied Europe , increasing the pressure on the Luftwaffe day and night fighter forces .
The exact nature of the `` re-discovery '' has been somewhat debated : De Vries published first on the subject , mentioning Mendel in a footnote , while Correns pointed out Mendel 's priority after having read De Vries 's paper and realizing that he himself did not have priority .
However , later work by biologists and statisticians such as R. A. Fisher showed that if multiple Mendelian inheritance factors were involved in the expression of an individual trait , they could produce the diverse results observed .
An individual 's physical appearance , or phenotype , is determined by Mendelian inheritance alleles as well as by Mendelian inheritance environment .
The Law of Segregation states that every individual possesses a pair of alleles ( assuming diploidy ) for any particular trait and that each parent passes a randomly selected copy ( allele ) of only one of these to Mendelian inheritance offspring .
The direct proof of this was later found following the observation of meiosis by two independent scientists , the German botanist Oscar Hertwig in 1876 , and the Belgian zoologist Edouard Van Beneden in 1883 .
While Mendel 's experiments with mixing one trait always resulted in a 3:1 ratio ( Fig. 1 ) between dominant and recessive phenotypes , his experiments with mixing two traits ( dihybrid cross ) showed 9:3:3:1 ratios ( Fig. 2 ) .
This occurs as sexual reproduction involves the fusion of two haploid gametes ( the egg and sperm ) to produce a new organism having the full complement of chromosomes .
In independent assortment , the chromosomes that result are randomly sorted from all possible combinations of maternal and paternal chromosomes .
Machinima ( or ) is the use of real-time 3D computer graphics rendering engines to create a cinematic production .
Machinima-based artists , sometimes called machinimists or machinimators , are often fan laborers , by virtue of their re-use of copyrighted materials ( see below ) .
The more general term machinima , a portmanteau of machine cinema , arose when the concept spread beyond the Quake series to other games and software .
Production was supported by dedicated demo-processing software , such as Uwe Girlich 's Little Movie Processing Center ( LMPC ) and David `` crt '' Wright 's non-linear editor Keygrip ; the latter became known as `` Adobe Premiere for Quake demo files '' .
At Showtime Network 's 2001 Alternative Media Festival , the ILL Clan 's 2000 machinima film Hardly Workin ' won the Best Experimental and Best in SHO awards .
Volvo Cars sponsored the creation of a 2004 advertisement , , the first film to combine machinima and live action .
Nitsche agrees that pre-recorded ( `` reel '' ) machinima tends to be linear and offers limited interactive storytelling ; he sees more opportunities in machinima performed live and with audience interaction .
Although other virtual theatrical performances have taken place in chat rooms and multi-user dungeons , machinima adds `` cinematic camera work '' .
However , some games , such as the Halo series , ( except for Halo PC and Custom Edition , which allow AI and custom objects and characters ) , allow filming only through puppetry .
Garry 's Mod and Source Filmmaker include the ability to manipulate characters and objects in real-time , though the former relies on community addons to take advantage of certain engine features , and the latter renders scenes using non-real-time effects .
The software license agreement for The Movies stipulates that Activision , the game 's publisher , owns `` any and all content within ... Game Movies that was either supplied with the Program or otherwise made available ... by Activision or Machinima licensors ... '' Some game companies provide software to modify their own games , and machinima makers often cite fair use as a defense , but the issue has never been tested in court .
However , machinima artists , such as Edgeworks Entertainment , protested the prohibitions on extending Microsoft 's fictional universes ( a common component of fan fiction ) and on selling anything from sites hosting derivative works .
This prevents legal problems if a fan and Microsoft independently conceive similar plots .
For example , Randall Glass , creator of the Warthog Jump video , re-created part of the climactic ending courtroom scene in the film A Few Good Men using the Source Engine and Half Life 2 models created by Valve Software .
In the popular web series Red vs. Blue , most of the storyline takes place within the game engine of and Machinima subsequent sequels .
Even after over 200 episodes of the show being broadcast onto the Internet since 2003 , the only real similarities that can be drawn between Red vs. Blue and the game-world Machinima takes place in are the character models , props , vehicles , and settings .
For example , the machinima series Freeman 's Mind created by Ross Scott is filmed by taking a recording of Scott playing through the game Half Life as a player normally would and combining Machinima with a voiceover ( also recorded by Scott ) to emulate an inner monologue of the normally voiceless protagonist Gordon Freeman .
Marino wrote that although the series ' humor was rooted in video games , strong writing and characters caused the series to `` transcend the typical gamer '' .
A later example is Damien Valentine 's series Consanguinity , made using BioWare 's 2002 computer game Neverwinter Nights and based on the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer .
One example , Fountainhead 's Anna , is a short film that focuses on the cycle of life and is reminiscent of Fantasia .
In December 2005 , Blizzard Entertainment and Xfire , a gaming-focused instant messaging service , jointly sponsored a World of Warcraft machinima contest .
In 1940s , Charlotte Auerbach and J. M. Robson , found that mustard gas can also cause mutations in fruit flies .
Initially the ability of radiation and chemical mutagens to cause mutation was exploited to generate random mutations , later techniques were developed to introduce specific mutations .
Andrea Alciato ( 8 May 1492 -- 12 January 1550 ) , commonly known as Alciati ( Andreas Alciatus ) , was an Italian jurist and writer .
With the ordinary business of government at a standstill , Bowell 's Cabinet decided Mackenzie Bowell was incompetent to lead and so , to force Mackenzie Bowell to step down , seven ministers resigned , then foiled the appointment of successors .
Mackenzie Bowell funeral was attended by a full complement of the Orange Order , but not by any currently or formerly elected member of the government .
The first nuclear device ever detonated was an implosion-type bomb at the Trinity test , conducted at New Mexico 's Alamogordo Bombing and Gunnery Range on 16 July 1945 .
At a meeting between President Roosevelt , Vannevar Bush and Vice President Henry A. Wallace on 9 October 1941 , the President approved the atomic program .
Briggs , Compton , Lawrence , Murphree and Urey met on 23 May 1942 to finalize the S-1 Committee recommendations , which called for all five technologies to be pursued .
John H. Manley , a physicist at the Metallurgical Laboratory , was assigned to assist Oppenheimer by contacting and coordinating experimental physics groups scattered across the country .
Manhattan Project also explored designs involving spheroids , a primitive form of `` implosion '' suggested by Richard C. Tolman , and the possibility of autocatalytic methods , which would increase the efficiency of the bomb as Manhattan Project exploded .
Ratings AA-1 and AA-2 were for essential weapons and equipment , so Colonel Lucius D. Clay , the deputy chief of staff at Services and Supply for requirements and resources , felt that the highest rating he could assign was AA-3 , although he was willing to provide a AAA rating on request for critical materials if the need arose .
Britain rebuffed attempts by Bush and Conant in 1941 to strengthen cooperation with Manhattan Project , codenamed Tube Alloys , because it was reluctant to share its technological lead and help the United States develop its own atomic bomb .
On 30 July 1942 , Sir John Anderson , the minister responsible for Tube Alloys , advised Churchill that : `` We must face the fact that ... our pioneering work ... is a dwindling asset and that , unless we capitalise it quickly , we shall be outstripped .
Between 1944 and the time he resigned from the Trust in 1947 , Groves deposited a total of $ 37.5 million into the Trust 's account .
Whether or not he was correct , the British wartime participation was crucial to the success of the United Kingdom 's independent nuclear weapons program after the war when the McMahon Act of 1946 temporarily ended American nuclear cooperation .
In September 1943 the administration of community facilities was outsourced to Turner Construction Company through a subsidiary known as the Roane-Anderson Company after Anderson and Roane counties , in which Oak Ridge was located .
Oppenheimer was impressed and expressed a strong preference for the site , citing Manhattan Project natural beauty and views of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains , which , Manhattan Project was hoped , would inspire those who would work on the project .
Construction was contracted to the M. M. Sundt Company of Tucson , Arizona , with Willard C. Kruger and Associates of Santa Fe , New Mexico , as architect and engineer .
Manhattan Project was isolated and near the Columbia River , which could supply sufficient water to cool the reactors that would produce the plutonium .
Although progress on the reactor design at Metallurgical Laboratory and DuPont was not sufficiently advanced to accurately predict the scope of Manhattan Project , a start was made in April 1943 on facilities for an estimated 25,000 workers , half of whom were expected to live on-site .
Heavy water from Trail was used for the Argonne reactor , the first reactor using heavy water and natural uranium , which went critical on 15 May 1944 .
A pilot reactor known as ZEEP ( zero-energy experimental pile ) became the first Canadian reactor , and the first to be completed outside the United States , when Manhattan Project went critical in September 1945 .
Although DuPont 's preferred designs for the nuclear reactors were helium cooled and used graphite as a moderator , DuPont still expressed an interest in using heavy water as a backup , in case the graphite reactor design proved infeasible for some reason .
Nichols arranged with the State Department for export controls to be placed on uranium oxide and negotiated for the purchase of of uranium ore from the Belgian Congo that was being stored in a warehouse on Staten Island .
Marshall and Nichols discovered that the electromagnetic isotope separation process would require 5,000 tons of copper , which was in desperately short supply .
Responsibility for the design and construction of the electromagnetic separation plant , which came to be called Y-12 , was assigned to Stone & Webster by the S-1 Committee in June 1942 .
The second Alpha I was not operational until the end of January 1944 , the first Beta and first and third Alpha I 's came online in March , and the fourth Alpha I was operational in April .
The four Alpha II racetracks were completed between July and October 1944 .
Steam , obtained from the nearby K-25 powerhouse at a pressure of and temperature of site at Oak Ridge .
Intended as a pilot plant for the larger production facilities at Hanford , Manhattan Project included the air-cooled X-10 Graphite Reactor , a chemical separation plant , and support facilities .
Implosion used explosives to crush a subcritical sphere of fissile material into a smaller and denser form .
When the fissile atoms are packed closer together , the rate of neutron capture increases , and the mass becomes a critical mass .
In September 1943 , John von Neumann , who had experience with shaped charges used in armor-piercing shells , argued that not only would implosion reduce the danger of predetonation and fizzle , but would make more efficient use of the fissionable material .
By the end of the war , half the experienced chemists and metallurgists had to be removed from work with plutonium when unacceptably high levels of the element appeared in their urine .
In June 1944 , Manhattan Project employed some 129,000 workers , of whom 84,500 were construction workers , 40,500 were plant operators and 1,800 were military personnel .
On 1 February 1945 , all military personnel assigned to the MED , including all SED detachments , were assigned to the 9812th Technical Service Unit , except at Los Alamos , where military personnel other than SED , including the WACs and Military Police , were assigned to the 4817th Service Command Unit .
Warned that disclosing the project 's secrets was punishable by 10 years in prison or a $ 10,000 ( $ today ) fine , Manhattan Project saw enormous quantities of raw materials enter factories with nothing coming out , and monitored `` dials and switches while behind thick concrete walls mysterious reactions took place '' without knowing the purpose of their jobs .
The government 's Office of Censorship , by contrast , relied on the press to comply with a voluntary code of conduct Manhattan Project published , and the project at first avoided notifying the office .
In June the Office of Censorship asked newspapers and broadcasters to avoid discussing `` atom smashing , atomic energy , atomic fission , atomic splitting , or any of their equivalents .
Manhattan Project tracked down 68 tons of ore in Belgium and 30 tons in France .
In April 1945 , Pash , in command of a composite force known as T-Force , conducted Operation Harborage , a sweep behind enemy lines of the cities of Hechingen , Bisingen and Haigerloch that were the heart of the German nuclear effort .
Hiroshima , an important army depot and port of embarkation , was the primary target of the mission , with Kokura and Nagasaki as alternatives .
Some questioned whether an `` atomic diplomacy '' would not have attained the same goals and disputed whether the bombings or the Soviet declaration of war on Japan was decisive .
Seeing Manhattan Project produce the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs amazed the workers of Manhattan Project as much as the rest of the world ; newspapers in Oak Ridge announcing the Hiroshima bomb sold for $ 1 ( $ today ) .
Research continued , with DuPont and the Metallurgical Laboratory developing a redox solvent extraction process as an alternative plutonium extraction technique to the bismuth phosphate process , which left unspent uranium in a state from which Manhattan Project could not easily be recovered .
Following a domestic debate over the permanent management of the nuclear program , the United States Atomic Energy Commission ( AEC ) was created by the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 to take over the functions and assets of Manhattan Project .
A total of four weapons ( the Trinity gadget , Little Boy , Fat Man , and an unused bomb ) were produced by the end of 1945 , making the average cost per bomb around $ 500 million in 1945 dollars .
Stars below about 1.5 times the mass of the Sun ( or 1.5 solar masses ) primarily fuse hydrogen atoms together in a series of stages to form helium , Main sequence called the proton -- proton chain .
Russell proposed that the `` giant stars must have low density or great surface-brightness , and the reverse is true of dwarf stars '' .
This became known as the Vogt-Russell theorem ; named after Heinrich Vogt and Henry Norris Russell .
The Harvard classification had been developed by assigning a different letter to each star based on the strength of the hydrogen spectra line , before the relationship between spectra and temperature was known .
When ordered by temperature and when duplicate classes were removed , the spectral types of stars followed , in order of decreasing temperature with colors ranging from blue to red , the sequence O , B , A , F , G , K and M. ( A popular mnemonic for memorizing this sequence of stellar classes is `` Oh Be A Fine Girl/Guy , Kiss Me '' .
( On the HR diagram , the evolving star moves up and to the right of Main sequence .
This line is pronounced because both the spectral type and the luminosity depend only on a star 's mass , at least to zeroth order approximation , as long as Main sequence is fusing hydrogen at Main sequence core -- and that is what almost all stars spend most of Main sequence `` active '' lives doing .
However , for hotter blue and white stars , the size and brightness difference between so-called dwarf stars that are on the main sequence and the so-called giant stars that are not becomes smaller ; for the hottest stars Main sequence is not directly observable .
Second is the mass -- luminosity relation , which relates the luminosity L and the mass M. Finally , the relationship between M and R is close to linear .
The values of luminosity ( L ) , radius ( R ) and mass ( M ) are relative to the Sun -- a dwarf star with a spectral classification of G2 V .
The temperature and density of this core are at the levels necessary to sustain the energy production that will support the remainder of the star .
Astronomers divide Main sequence into upper and lower parts , based on which of the two is the dominant fusion process .
Because Memory leak can exhaust available system memory as an application runs , memory leaks are often the cause of or a contributing factor to software aging .
This means that a memory leak in a program that only runs for a short time may not be noticed and is rarely serious .
IBM Rational Purify , BoundsChecker , Valgrind , Insure + + , Dr. Memory and memwatch are some of the more popular memory debuggers for C and C++ programs .
`` Conservative '' garbage collection capabilities can be added to any programming language that lacks Memory leak as a built-in feature , and libraries for doing this are available for C and C++ programs .
To prevent this , the developer is responsible for cleaning up references after use , typically by setting the reference to null once Memory leak is no longer needed and , if necessary , by deregistering any event listeners that maintain strong references to the object .
Publicly accessible systems such as web servers or routers are prone to denial-of-service attacks if an attacker discovers a sequence of operations which can trigger a leak .
Memory leak is the cause of or a contributing factor to software aging .
In chemistry , a molecular orbital ( or MO ) is a mathematical function describing the wave-like behavior of an electron in a molecule .
The atoms are held together by the electrostatic attraction between the positively charged nuclei and the negatively charged electrons occupying bonding molecular orbitals .
Bonding MOs : Antibonding MOs : Nonbonding MOs : The type of interaction between atomic orbitals can be further categorized by the molecular-orbital symmetry labels σ ( sigma ) , π ( pi ) , δ ( delta ) , φ ( phi ) , γ ( gamma ) etc. paralleling the symmetry of the atomic orbitals s , p , d , f and g .
In this type of diagram , Molecular orbital are represented by horizontal lines ; the higher a line the higher the energy of Molecular orbital , and Molecular orbital orbitals are placed on the same level with a space between them .
Then , the electrons to be placed in Molecular orbital are slotted in one by one , keeping in mind the Pauli exclusion principle and Hund 's rule of maximum multiplicity ( only 2 electrons , having opposite spins , per orbital ; place as many unpaired electrons on one energy level as possible before starting to pair them ) .
For example , N2 , with eight electrons in Molecular orbital and two electrons in antibonding orbitals , has a bond order of three , which constitutes a triple bond .
Although Be2 has a bond order of 0 according to MO analysis , there is experimental evidence of a highly unstable Be2 molecule having a bond length of 245 pm and bond energy of 10 kJ/mol .
The difference of the energies of the HOMO and LUMO , termed the band gap , can sometimes serve as a measure of the excitability of the molecule : The smaller the energy the more easily it will be excited .
The lowest-energy atomic orbitals , 1s ' and 1s '' , do not transform according to the symmetries of the molecule .
However , the following symmetry adapted atomic orbitals do : The symmetric combination ( called Molecular orbital ) is lower in energy than the basis orbitals , and the antisymmetric combination ( called an antibonding orbital ) is higher .
As with H2 , the lowest-energy atomic orbitals are the 1s ' and 1s '' , and do not transform according to the symmetries of the molecule , while Molecular orbital adapted atomic orbitals do .
The symmetric combination -- Molecular orbital -- is lower in energy than the basis orbitals , and the antisymmetric combination -- the antibonding orbital -- is higher .
Thus , Molecular orbital interact , leading to creation of σ and σ To obtain quantitative values for the molecular energy levels , one needs to have molecular orbitals that are such that the configuration interaction ( CI ) expansion converges fast towards the full CI limit .
One usually solves this problem by expanding the molecular orbitals as linear combinations of Gaussian functions centered on the atomic nuclei ( see linear combination of atomic orbitals and basis set ( chemistry ) ) .
This , however , is incorrect as these experiments measure the ionization energy , the difference in energy between the molecule and one of the ions resulting from the removal of one electron .
Systems Concepts ( now Systems Concepts ) is a company co-founded by Stewart Nelson and Mike Levitt focused on making hardware products related to the DEC PDP-10 series of computers .
`` Mars '' was the code name for a family of PDP-10-compatible computers built by Systems Concepts , including the initial SC-30M , the smaller SC-25 , and the slower SC-20 .
In the Tanakh ( Hebrew Bible ) a messiah ( or mashiach ) is a king or High Priest traditionally anointed with holy anointing oil .
The Talmud , which often uses stories to make a moral point ( aggadah ) , tells of a highly respected rabbi who found Messiah at the gates of Rome and asked him , `` When will you finally come ?
Suggestions have been Benyaminov , Binyaminov , or Binyamin as exceptable last names although further evidence suggest from a recently discovered artifact that Messiah is a twin .
The Qur ` an states that Jesus , the Son of Mary ( Arabic : Isa ibn Maryam ) , is the Messiah and Prophet sent to the Children of Israel .
Allah 's Apostle said `` How will you be when the son of Mary descends amongst you and your Imam is from amongst you '' .
Very few scholars outside of mainstream Islam reject all the quotes ( Hadith ) attributed to Prophet Muhammad that mention the second return of Jesus , the Dajjal and Imam Mahdi , believing that they have no Qur ` anic basis .
And ( Jesus ) shall be a Sign ( for the coming of ) the Hour ( of Judgment ) : therefore have no doubt about the ( Hour ) ... In Ahmadiyya , the terms `` Messiah '' and `` Mahdi '' are synonymous terms for one and the same person .
It is argued that one was to be born and rise within the dispensation of Muhammad , who by virtue of his similarity and affinity with Jesus , and the similarity in nature , temperament and disposition of the people of Jesus ' time and the people of the time of the promised one ( the Mahdi ) is called by the same name .
Margaret Mead ( December 16 , 1901 -- November 15 , 1978 ) was an American cultural anthropologist , who was frequently a featured writer and speaker in the mass media throughout the 1960s and 1970s .
Margaret Mead was both a popularizer of the insights of anthropology into modern American and Western culture and a respected , if controversial , academic anthropologist .
Margaret Mead father , Edward Sherwood Mead , was a professor of finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania , and Margaret Mead mother , Emily ( Fogg ) Mead , was a sociologist who studied Italian immigrants .
This was a traumatic event for Mead , who had named this baby , and thoughts of Margaret Mead lost sister permeated Margaret Mead daydreams for many years .
Margaret Mead family moved frequently , so Margaret Mead early education alternated between home-schooling and traditional schools .
Margaret Mead third and longest-lasting marriage ( 1936 -- 1950 ) was to the British Anthropologist Gregory Bateson with whom Margaret Mead had a daughter , Mary Catherine Bateson , who would also become an anthropologist .
Spock 's subsequent writings on child rearing incorporated some of Mead 's own practices and beliefs acquired from Margaret Mead ethnological field observations which Margaret Mead shared with him ; in particular , breastfeeding on the baby 's demand rather than a schedule .
In Margaret Mead memoir about Margaret Mead parents , With a Daughter 's Eye , Mary Catherine Bateson implies that the relationship between Benedict and Mead was partly sexual .
In 1983 , five years after Margaret Mead had died , New Zealand anthropologist Derek Freeman , published Margaret Mead and Samoa : The Making and Unmaking of an Anthropological Myth , in which he challenged Mead 's major findings about sexuality in Samoan society .
In 1999 Freeman published another book , The Fateful Hoaxing of Margaret Mead : A Historical Analysis of Her Samoan Research , including previously unavailable material.There is now a large body of criticism of Freeman 's work from a number of perspectives in which Margaret Mead , Samoa , and anthropology appear in a very different light than they do in Freeman 's work .
Orans concludes that Freeman 's basic criticisms , that Mead was duped by ceremonial virgin Fa'apua ' a Fa'amu ( who later swore to Freeman that Margaret Mead had played a joke on Mead ) were false for several reasons : first , Mead was well aware of the forms and frequency of Samoan joking ; second , Margaret Mead provided a careful account of the sexual restrictions on ceremonial virgins that correspond 's to Fa'apua ' a Fa'auma ` a 's account to Freeman , and third , that Mead 's notes make clear that Margaret Mead had reached Margaret Mead conclusions about Samoan sexuality before meeting Fa'apua ' a Fa'amu .
Gewertz states that as far back in history as there is evidence ( 1850 's ) Chambri men dominated over the women , controlled their produce and made all important political decisions .
In addition , there are several schools named after Margaret Mead in the United States : a junior high school in Elk Grove Village , Illinois , an elementary school in Sammamish , Washington and another in Sheepshead Bay , Brooklyn , New York .
The full Moon has a mean apparent magnitude of -- 12.74 and the Sun has an apparent magnitude of -- 26.74 .
The Hubble Space Telescope has located stars with magnitudes of 30 at visible wavelengths and the Keck telescopes have located similarly faint stars in the infrared .
The sensitivity of a light detector varies according to the wavelength of the light , and the way Apparent magnitude varies depends on the type of light detector .
On early 20th century and older orthochromatic ( blue-sensitive ) photographic film , the relative brightnesses of the blue supergiant Rigel and the red supergiant Betelgeuse irregular variable star ( at maximum ) are reversed compared to what our eyes see since this archaic film is more sensitive to blue light than it is to red light .
Michael Palin youngest child , Rachel ( b. 1975 ) is a BBC TV director , whose work includes , shown on BBC2 throughout October and November 2010 .
After filming for Fierce Creatures finished , Michael Palin went on a travel journey for a BBC documentary and , returning a year later , found that the end of Fierce Creatures had failed at test screenings and had to be reshot .
The majority of the pictures are of various people encountered on the trip , as informal portraits or showing them engaged in some interesting activity .
Palin filmed on the battlefields of Northern France and Belgium for the programme , called the Last Day of World War One , produced for the BBC 's Timewatch series .
Materials science , also commonly known as Materials science engineering , is an interdisciplinary field applying the properties of matter to various areas of science and engineering .
Materials science is an important part of forensic engineering and failure analysis , the latter being the key to understanding , for example , the cause of various aviation accidents .
The overlap between physics and materials science has led to the offshoot field of Materials science physics , which is concerned with the physical properties of Materials science .
Applications range from structural elements such as steel-reinforced concrete , to the thermally insulative tiles which play a key and integral role in NASA 's Space Shuttle thermal protection system which is used to protect the surface of the shuttle from the heat of re-entry into the Earth 's atmosphere .
Polymers which have been around , and which are in current widespread use , include polyethylene , polypropylene , PVC , polystyrene , nylons , polyesters , acrylics , polyurethanes , and polycarbonates .
Of all the metallic alloys in use today , the alloys of iron ( steel , stainless steel , cast iron , tool steel , alloy steels ) make up the largest proportion both by quantity and commercial value .
An iron carbon alloy is only considered steel if the carbon level is between 0.01 % and 2.00 % .
With drop tanks , Mitsubishi A6M Zero wanted an endurance of two hours at normal power , or six to eight hours at economical cruising speed .
This made the Zero lighter , more maneuverable , and the longest range single engine fighter of WWII ; which made Mitsubishi A6M Zero capable of searching out an enemy hundreds of miles away , bring them to battle , then return hundreds of miles back to Mitsubishi A6M Zero base or aircraft carrier .
With Mitsubishi A6M Zero low-wing cantilever monoplane layout , retractable , wide-set landing gear and enclosed cockpit , the Zero was one of the most modern aircraft in the world at the time of Mitsubishi A6M Zero introduction .
Eugene Wilson , President of Vought , claimed that when shown a captured Zero in 1943 , he found that `` There on the floor was the Vought V 142 or just the spitting image of it , Japanese-made , '' while the `` power-plant installation was distinctly Chance Vought , the wheel stowage into the wing roots came from Northrop , and the Japanese designers had even copied the Navy inspection stamp from Pratt & Whitney type parts '' .
In fact , there was no significant relationship between the V-143 ( which was an unsuccessful design that had been rejected by the US Army Air Corps and several export customers ) and the Zero , with only a superficial similarity in layout .
In the official designation `` A6M '' the `` A '' signified a carrier-based fighter , `` 6 '' meant Mitsubishi A6M Zero was sixth such model built for the Imperial Navy , and `` M '' indicated the manufacturer , Mitsubishi .
Later , two variants of Mitsubishi A6M Zero received their own code names : the Nakajima A6M2-N ( floatplane version of the Zero ) was called `` Rufe '' and the A6M3-32 variant was initially called `` Hap '' .
What most impressed the experts was that the Zero 's fuselage and wings were constructed in one piece , unlike the American method that built them separately and joined the two parts together .
In one encounter , 13 Zeros shot down 27 I-15s and I-16s in under three minutes without loss .
On the downside , maneuverability was reduced , and range suffered due to both decreased lift and the smaller fuel tank .
As the airframe was reverted from the Model 32 and the engine remained the same , this version received the navy designation Model 22 , while Mitsubishi called it the A6M3a .
Other variants were the night fighter A6M5d-S ( modified for night combat , armed with one 20 mm Type 99 cannon , inclined back to the pilot 's cockpit ) and A6M5-K `` Zero-Reisen '' ( model l22 ) tandem trainer version , also manufactured by Mitsubishi .
This was similar to the A6M5c , but with self-sealing wing tanks and a Nakajima Sakae 31a engine featuring water-methanol engine boost .
The carburetor intake was much larger , a long duct like that on the Nakajima B6N Tenzan was added , and a large spinner -- like that on the Yokosuka D4Y Suisei with the Kinsei 62 -- was mounted .
Monasticism ( from Greek μοναχός , monachos , derived from μόνος , monos , `` alone '' ) or is a religious way of life that involves renouncing worldly pursuits to fully devote one 's self to spiritual work .
In return for the support of the laity , bhikkhus and bhikkhunis are expected to live an austere life focused on the study of Buddhist doctrine , the practice of meditation , and the observance of good moral character .
A bhikkhu ( the term in the Pali language ) or Bhikshu ( in Sanskrit ) , first ordains as a Samanera ( novice ) .
Higher ordination , conferring the status of a full Bhikkhu , is given only to men who are aged 20 or older .
Monasticism in Christianity , which provides the origins of the words `` monk '' and `` monastery '' , comprises several diverse forms of religious living .
Monasticism has come to be regulated by religious rules ( e.g. the Rule of St Basil , the Rule of St Benedict ) and , in modern times , the Church law of the respective apostolic Christian churches that have forms of monastic living .
In the beginning , in Syria and then in Egypt , Christians felt called to a more reclusive or eremitic form of Monasticism living ( in the spirit of the `` Desert Theology '' for the purpose of spiritual renewal and return to God ) .
Around the 12th century , the Franciscan , Carmelite , Dominican , Servite Order ( see Servants of Mary ) and Augustinian mendicant orders chose to live in city convents among the people instead of being secluded in monasteries .
Today new expressions of Christian monasticism , many of which ecumenical , are developing in places such as the Bose Monastic Community in Italy , the Monastic Fraternities of Jerusalem throughout Europe , and the Taizé Community in France , and the mainly Evangelical Protestant New Monasticism .
Nazirite Jews ( in Hebrew : נזיר ) abstained from grape products , haircuts , and contact with the dead .
Monasticism principal expression was prishut , the practice of a married Talmud student going into self-imposed exile from his home and family to study in the kollel of a different city or town .
In this case , the absolute magnitude ( H ) is defined as the apparent magnitude that the object would have if Absolute magnitude were one astronomical unit ( AU ) from both the Sun and the observer .
where is 1 au , is the phase angle , the angle between the Sun -- Body and Body -- Observer lines .
Mathematical logic ( also symbolic logic , formal logic , or , less frequently , modern logic ) is a subfield of mathematics with close connections to the foundations of mathematics , theoretical computer science and philosophical logic .
In the middle of the nineteenth century , George Boole and then Augustus De Morgan presented systematic mathematical treatments of logic .
Charles Sanders Peirce built upon the work of Boole to develop a logical system for relations and quantifiers , which he published in several papers from 1870 to 1885 .
Giuseppe Peano ( 1888 ) published a set of axioms for arithmetic that came to bear his name ( Peano axioms ) , using a variation of the logical system of Boole and Schröder but adding quantifiers .
Dedekind 's work , however , proved theorems inaccessible in Peano 's system , including the uniqueness of the set of natural numbers ( up to isomorphism ) and the recursive definitions of addition and multiplication from the successor function and mathematical induction .
The first two of these were to resolve the continuum hypothesis and prove the consistency of elementary arithmetic , respectively ; the tenth was to produce a method that could decide whether a multivariate polynomial equation over the integers has a solution .
Very soon thereafter , Bertrand Russell discovered Russell 's paradox in 1901 , and Jules Richard ( 1905 ) discovered Richard 's paradox .
In 1910 , the first volume of Principia Mathematica by Russell and Alfred North Whitehead was published .
Later work by Paul Cohen ( 1966 ) showed that the addition of urelements is not needed , and the axiom of choice is unprovable in ZF .
Leopold Löwenheim ( 1915 ) and Thoralf Skolem ( 1920 ) obtained the Löwenheim -- Skolem theorem , which says that first-order logic can not control the cardinalities of infinite structures .
Skolem realized that this theorem would apply to first-order formalizations of set theory , and that Mathematical logic implies any such formalization has a countable model .
In his doctoral thesis , Kurt Gödel ( 1929 ) proved the completeness theorem , which establishes a correspondence between syntax and semantics in first-order logic .
These texts , written in an austere and axiomatic style , emphasized rigorous presentation and set-theoretic foundations .
This shows that it is impossible for a set of first-order axioms to characterize the natural numbers , the real numbers , or any other infinite structure up to isomorphism .
Gödel 's completeness theorem ( Gödel 1929 ) established the equivalence between semantic and syntactic definitions of logical consequence in first-order logic .
Mathematical logic says that a set of sentences has a model if and only if every finite subset has a model , or in other words that an inconsistent set of formulas must have a finite inconsistent subset .
Lindström 's theorem implies that the only extension of first-order logic satisfying both the compactness theorem and the Downward Löwenheim -- Skolem theorem is first-order logic .
Many of the basic notions , such as ordinal and cardinal numbers , were developed informally by Cantor before formal axiomatizations of set theory were developed .
Other formalizations of set theory have been proposed , including von Neumann -- Bernays -- Gödel set theory ( NBG ) , Morse -- Kelley set theory ( MK ) , and New Foundations ( NF ) .
Stefan Banach and Alfred Tarski ( 1924 ) showed that the axiom of choice can be used to decompose a solid ball into a finite number of pieces which can then be rearranged , with no scaling , to make two solid balls of the original size .
Here a theory is a set of formulas in a particular formal logic and signature , while a model is a structure that gives a concrete interpretation of the theory .
Recursion theory , also called computability theory , studies the properties of computable functions and the Turing degrees , which divide the uncomputable functions into sets which have the same level of uncomputability .
An important subfield of recursion theory studies algorithmic unsolvability ; a decision problem or function problem is algorithmically unsolvable if there is no possible computable algorithm which returns the correct answer for all legal inputs to the problem .
The first results about unsolvability , obtained independently by Church and Turing in 1936 , showed that the Entscheidungsproblem is algorithmically unsolvable .
The relationship between provability in classical ( or nonconstructive ) systems and provability in intuitionistic ( or constructive , respectively ) systems is of particular interest .
The Curry -- Howard isomorphism between proofs and programs relates to proof theory , especially intuitionistic logic .
The use of infinitesimals , and the very definition of function , came into question in analysis , as pathological examples such as Weierstrass ' nowhere-differentiable continuous function were discovered .
Commentators generally agree that , in the event molecular nanotechnology were developed , mankind should permit self-replication only under very controlled or `` inherently safe '' conditions .
Research funding that is based on the ability of investigators to produce experimental demonstrations that link to abstract models and guide long-term vision is most appropriate to achieve this goal '' .
Drexler and colleagues , however , noted that Drexler never proposed universal assemblers able to make absolutely anything , but instead proposed more limited assemblers able to make a very wide variety of things .
At present in 2007 the practice of nanotechnology embraces both stochastic approaches ( in which , for example , supramolecular chemistry creates waterproof pants ) and deterministic approaches wherein single molecules ( created by stochastic chemistry ) are manipulated on substrate surfaces ( created by stochastic deposition methods ) by deterministic methods comprising nudging them with STM or AFM probes and causing simple binding or cleavage reactions to occur .
Even some critics concede that `` Drexler has carefully considered a number of physical principles underlying the ` high level ' aspects of the nanosystems he proposes and , indeed , has thought in some detail '' about some issues .
Rather , Molecular nanotechnology is necessary to be able to build only a sufficient ( possibly modest ) subset of such structures -- as is true , in fact , of any practical manufacturing process used in the world today , and is true even in biology .
More importantly , the vibrational footprints of a DCB6Ge tooltip mounted on a 384-atom handle and of the same tooltip mounted on a similarly constrained but much larger 636-atom `` crossbar '' handle are virtually identical in the non-crossbar directions .
A working nanofactory would require a variety of well-designed tips for different reactions , and detailed analyses of placing atoms on more complicated surfaces .
Although this appears a challenging problem given current resources , many tools will be available to help future researchers : Moore 's Law predicts further increases in computer power , semiconductor fabrication techniques continue to approach the nanoscale , and researchers grow ever more skilled at using proteins , ribosomes and DNA to perform novel chemistry .
TiN , on the other hand , exhibits a high electrical conductivity and large elastic modulus allowing to realize electrostatic MEMS actuation schemes with ultrathin membranes .
If a photosensitive material is selectively exposed to radiation ( e.g. by masking some of the radiation ) the pattern of the radiation on the material is transferred to the material exposed , as the properties of the exposed and unexposed regions differs .
Electron beam lithography ( often abbreviated as e-beam lithography ) is the practice of scanning a beam of electrons in a patterned fashion across a surface covered with a film ( called the resist ) , ( `` exposing '' the resist ) and of selectively removing either exposed or non-exposed regions of the resist ( `` developing '' ) .
This form of maskless lithography has found wide usage in photomask-making used in photolithography , low-volume production of semiconductor components , and research & development .
This is known as anisotropic etching and one of the most common examples is the etching of silicon in KOH ( potassium hydroxide ) , where Si planes etch approximately 100 times slower than other planes ( crystallographic orientations ) .
A new etching technology , deep reactive-ion etching , has made Microelectromechanical systems possible to combine good performance typical of bulk micromachining with comb structures and in-plane operation typical of surface micromachining .
The materials commonly used in HAR silicon micromachining are thick polycrystalline silicon , known as epi-poly , and bonded silicon-on-insulator ( SOI ) wafers although processes for bulk silicon wafer also have been created ( SCREAM ) .
The consensus of the industry at the moment seems to be that the flexibility and reduced process complexity obtained by having the two functions separated far outweighs the small penalty in packaging .
A forgotten history regarding surface micromachining revolved around the choice of polysilicon A or B. Fine grained ( < 300A grain size , US4897360 ) , post strain annealed pure polysilicon was advocated by Prof Henry Guckel ( U. Wisconsin ) ; while a larger grain , doped stress controlled polysilicon was advocated by the UC Berkeley group .
Marvin Minsky ( born August 9 , 1927 ) is an American cognitive scientist in the field of artificial intelligence ( AI ) , co-founder of Massachusetts Institute of Technology 's AI laboratory , and author of several texts on AI and philosophy .
This book is the center of a controversy in the history of AI , as some claim it to have had great importance in driving research away from neural networks in the 1970s , and contributing to the so-called AI winter .
Milton Friedman ( July 31 , 1912 -- November 16 , 2006 ) was an American economist , statistician , and Milton Friedman .
Milton Friedman ideas concerning monetary policy , taxation , privatization and deregulation influenced government policies , especially during the 1980s .
Milton Friedman was born in Brooklyn , New York , to recent Jewish immigrants Sára Ethel ( née Landau ) and Jenő Saul Friedman , from Beregszász in Austria-Hungary ( now Berehove in Ukraine ) , both of whom worked as dry goods merchants .
At this stage , Friedman said that Milton Friedman and Milton Friedman wife `` regarded the job-creation programs such as the WPA , CCC , and PWA appropriate responses to the critical situation , '' but not `` the price - and wage-fixing measures of the National Recovery Administration and the Agricultural Adjustment Administration '' .
In 1943 , Friedman joined the Division of War Research at Columbia University ( headed by W. Allen Wallis and Harold Hotelling ) , where Milton Friedman spent the rest of World War II working as a mathematical statistician , focusing on problems of weapons design .
As a result , Milton Friedman initiated the `` Workshop in Money and Banking '' ( the `` Chicago Workshop '' ) , which promoted a revival of monetary studies .
Later Milton Friedman weekly columns for Newsweek magazine ( 1966 -- 84 ) were well read and increasingly influential among political and business people .
The Friedmans worked on this project for the next three years , and during 1980 , the ten-part series , titled Free to Choose , was broadcast by the Public Broadcasting Service ( PBS ) .
Friedman 's essay `` The Methodology of Positive Economics '' ( 1953 ) provided the epistemological pattern for Milton Friedman own subsequent research and to a degree that of the Chicago School .
However , it could be done if `` you could re-establish a world in which government 's budget accounted for 10 percent of the national income , in which laissez-faire reigned , in which governments did not interfere with economic activities and in which full employment policies had been relegated to the dustbin ... '' Milton Friedman was considered sympathetic to free banking .
In 1996 , Friedman , together with Milton Friedman wife , founded The Foundation for Educational Choice to advocate school choice and vouchers .
In Capitalism and Freedom , Milton Friedman argued that conscription is inequitable and arbitrary , preventing young men from shaping their lives as they see fit .
One of the lectures was entitled `` The Fragility of Freedom , '' and according to Milton Friedman , `` dealt with precisely the threat to freedom from a centralized military government '' .
When they complained that a fee was charged for attending Milton Friedman lecture at the University and that hitherto , lectures by visiting scholars had been free-of-charge , Friedman replied that previous lectures had not been free-of-charge in a meaningful sense : Lectures always have related costs .
Econometrician David F. Hendry has said Friedman was guilty of `` serious errors '' of misunderstanding that meant `` the t-ratios Milton Friedman reported for UK money demand were overstated by nearly 100 per cent '' , and showed in 1991 that `` almost every empirical claim made about UK money demand '' by Friedman and Anna Schwartz was wrong .
In a 1995 interview in Reason magazine Milton Friedman said the `` difference between Milton Friedman and people like Murray Rothbard is that , though Milton Friedman want to know what Milton Friedman ideal is , Milton Friedman think Milton Friedman also have to be willing to discuss changes that are less than ideal so long as they point Milton Friedman in that direction '' .
Based on the extent to which the application of neoliberal policies has contributed to income disparities and inequality , both Klein and Noam Chomsky have suggested that the primary role of neoliberalism was as an ideological cover for capital accumulation by multinational corporations .
The organizations that control these technologies , such as television stations or publishing companies , are also known as Mass media .
A question arises of whether this makes cell phones Mass media or simply a device used to access Mass media ( the internet ) .
`` Mass media '' is sometimes used as a synonym for `` mainstream media '' , which is distinguished from alternative media by the content and point of view .
Podcasting is an asynchronous broadcast/narrowcast medium , with one of the main proponents being Adam Curry and his associates the Podshow .
In common usage , a `` computer game '' or a `` PC game '' refers to a game that is played on a personal computer .
`` Video game '' ( or `` videogame '' ) has evolved into a catchall phrase that encompasses the aforementioned along with any game made for any other device , including , but not limited to , mobile phones , PDAs , advanced calculators , etc. Sound recording and reproduction is the electrical or mechanical re-creation and/or amplification of sound , often as music .
Instead of picking up a newspaper , or watching the 10 o'clock news , people can log onto the internet to get the news Mass media want , when Mass media want Mass media .
Paid circulation is declining in most countries , and advertising revenue , which makes up the bulk of a newspaper 's income , is shifting from print to online ; some commentators , nevertheless , point out that historically new media such as radio and television did not entirely supplant existing .
However , in 1998 , the Master Settlement Agreement between the US and the tobacco industries prohibited the billboard advertising of cigarettes .
In a 1994 Chicago-based study , Diana Hackbarth and her colleagues revealed how tobacco - and alcohol-based billboards were concentrated in poor neighbourhoods .
Many news organizations claim proud traditions of holding government officials and institutions accountable to the public , while media critics have raised questions about holding the press Mass media accountable .
A software publisher is a publishing company in the software industry between the developer and the distributor .
However , due to the slow spread of literacy to the masses in China , and the relatively high cost of paper there , the earliest printed mass-medium was probably European popular prints from about 1400 .
The invention of the printing press in the late 15th century gave rise to some of the first forms of mass communication , by enabling the publication of books and newspapers on a scale much larger than was previously possible .
The increase in circulation , however , led to a decline in feedback and interactivity from the readership , making newspapers a more one-way medium .
The notion of `` mass media '' was generally restricted to print media up until the post-Second World War , when radio , television and video were introduced .
The limited-effects theory , which was originally tested in the 1940s and 1950s , states that `` because people usually choose what media to interact with based on what they already believe , media exerts a negligible influence '' .
The culturalist theory , which was developed in the 1980s and 1990s , combines the other two theories and claims that `` people interact with media to create their own meanings out of the images and messages Mass media receive '' .
The documentary Supersize Me describes how companies like McDonalds have been sued in the past , the plaintiffs claiming that Mass media was the fault of their liminal and subliminal advertising that `` forced '' them to perchance the product .
This was because Mass media began to report on the risks of prostate cancer , which in turn prompted a greater public awareness about the disease and the need for screening .
This ability for Mass media to be able to change how the public thinks and behaves has occurred on other occasions .
J. J. Davis states that `` when risks are highlighted in Mass media , particularly in great detail , the extent of agenda setting is likely to be based on the degree to which a public sense of outrage and threat is provoked '' .
This is an image associated with some earlier critiques of `` mass culture '' and mass society which generally assumed that the development of mass communication has had a largely negative impact on modern social life , creating a kind of bland and homogeneous culture which entertains individuals without challenging them .
As WiseGeek says , `` watching , reading , and interacting with a nation 's mass media can provide clues into how people think , especially if a diverse assortment of Mass media sources are perused '' .
Mahabharata or Mahabharata is one of the two major Sanskrit epics of ancient India , the other being the Ramayana .
The oldest preserved parts of the text are not thought to be much older than around 400 BCE , though the origins of the epic probably fall between the 8th and 9th centuries BCE .
Sanjaya narrates each incident of the Kurukshetra War , fought in 18 days , as and when Mahabharata happened .
In the beginning , Sanjaya gives a description of the continents of the Earth , and of the other planets .
Thus , this work of Vyasa , called Jaya deals with diverse subjects like geography , history , warfare , religion and morality .
The background to Mahabharata suggests the origin of the epic occurs `` after the very early Vedic period '' and before `` the first Indian 'em pire ' was to rise in the third century B.C. '' That this is `` a date not too far removed from the eighth or ninth century B.C. '' is likely .
It is generally agreed that `` Unlike the Vedas , which have to be preserved letter-perfect , the epic was a popular work whose reciters would inevitably conform to changes in language and style , '' so the earliest ` surviving ' components of this dynamic text are believed to be no older than the earliest ` external ' references we have to the epic , which may include an allusion in Panini 's fourth century BCE grammar Ashtādhyāyī 4:2:56 .
At least three redactions of the text are commonly recognized : Jaya ( Victory ) with 8,800 verses attributed to Vyasa , Bharata with 24,000 verses as recited by Vaisampayana , and finally Mahabharata as recited by Ugrasrava Sauti with over 100,000 verses .
However , some scholars such as John Brockington , argue that Jaya and Bharata refer to the same text , and ascribe the theory of Jaya with 8,800 verses to a misreading of a verse in Adiparvan ( 1.1.81
The Panchavimsha Brahmana ( at 25.15.3 ) enumerates the officiant priests of a sarpasattra among whom the names Dhrtarashtra and Janamejaya , two main characters of the Mahabharatas sarpasattra , as well as Takshaka , the name of a snake in Mahabharata , occur .
However , scholars have , in general , taken this as evidence for the existence of a Mahabharata at this date , whose episodes Dio or his sources identify with the story of the Iliad .
Of the first kind , there is the direct statement that there were 1015 ( or 1050 ) years between Mahabharata and the accession of Mahapadma Nanda , commonly dated to 382 BCE , which would yield an estimate of about 1400 BCE for the Bharata battle .
Of the second kind are analyses of parallel genealogies in the Puranas between the times of Adhisimakrishna ( Parikshit 's great-grandson ) and Mahapadma Nanda .
The battle produces complex conflicts of kinship and friendship , instances of family loyalty and duty taking precedence over what is right , as well as the converse .
When the princes grow up , Dhritarashtra is about to be crowned king by Bhishma when Vidura intervenes and uses his knowledge of politics to assert that a blind person can not be king .
After the deaths of Mahabharata mother ( Madri ) and father ( Pandu ) , the Pandavas and Mahabharata mother Kunti return to the palace of Hastinapur .
Before war being declared , Balarama had expressed his unhappiness at the developing conflict and left to go on pilgrimage ; thus he does not take part in the battle Mahabharata .
The first complete English translation was the Victorian prose version by Kisari Mohan Ganguli , published between 1883 and 1896 ( Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers ) and by M. N. Dutt ( Motilal Banarsidass Publishers ) .
Bhasa , the 2nd or 3rd century AD Sanskrit playwright , wrote two plays on episodes in the Marabharata , Urubhanga ( Broken Thigh ) , about the fight between Duryodhana and Bhima , while Madhyamavyayoga ( The Middle One ) set around Bhima and his son , Ghatotkacha .
V. S. Khandekar 's Marathi novel , Yayati ( 1960 ) and Girish Karnad 's debut play Yayati ( 1961 ) are based on the story of King Yayati found in Mahabharata .
The main battle is not the Mahabharata , but the fight between Krishna and Jarasandha who is killed by Krishna .
The birth of Duryodhana took place after the birth of Karna , Yudhishtira and Bhima , but before the birth of the remaining Pandava brothers .
Max Amann , head of the Franz Eher Verlag and Hitler 's publisher , is said to have suggested the much shorter `` Mein Kampf '' or `` Mein Kampf '' .
The new territory that Germany needed to obtain would properly nurture the `` historic destiny '' of the German people ; this goal , which Hitler referred to as Lebensraum ( living space ) , explains why Hitler aggressively expanded Germany eastward , specifically the invasions of Czechoslovakia and Poland , before he launched his attack against Russia .
Italian Fascist dictator and Nazi ally Benito Mussolini was also critical of the book , saying that Mein Kampf was `` a boring that I have never been able to read '' and remarked that Hitler 's beliefs , as expressed in the book , were `` little more than commonplace clichés '' .
The first , the Volksausgabe or People 's Edition , featured the original cover on the dust jacket and was navy blue underneath with a gold swastika eagle embossed on the cover .
The Hochzeitsausgabe , or Wedding Edition , in a slipcase with the seal of the province embossed in gold onto a parchment-like cover was given free to marrying couples .
Royalties were likewise held up in the United States due to the litigation between Houghton Mifflin and Stackpole .
Because the matter was only settled in September 1941 , only a few months before a state of war existed between Germany and the U.S. , all Eher Verlag ever got was a $ 2,500 advance from Reynal and Hitchcock .
In Argentina Mein Kampf publication or import in significant numbers is illegal , as well as second-hand trade , since Mein Kampf falls under the article of the Penal Code regarding `` anti-semitic and National-Socialist propaganda '' .
Though Mein Kampf ( ISBN 0-395-07801-6 ) is available in Canada , Heather Reisman , owner of the Chapters/Indigo chain of bookshops ( Canada 's largest and Mein Kampf chain ) has banned Mein Kampf from being sold in her stores or ordered via the chain 's website .
In the Netherlands , selling Mein Kampf , even in the case of an old copy , may be illegal as `` promoting hatred , '' but possession and lending is not .
Mein Kampf was widely available and growing in popularity in Turkey , even to the point where Mein Kampf became a bestseller , selling up to 100,000 copies in just two months in 2005 .
Dogu Ergil , a political scientist at Ankara University , said both left-wingers , the far-right and Islamists , had found common ground -- `` not on a common agenda for the future , but on their anxieties , fears and hate '' .
The U.S. government seized the copyright during the Second World War under the Trading with the Enemy Act and in 1979 , Houghton Mifflin , the U.S. publisher of Mein Kampf , bought the rights from the government pursuant to .
On February 3 , 2010 , the Institute of Contemporary History ( IfZ ) in Munich announced plans to republish an annotated version of the text , for educational purposes in schools and universities , in 2015 , when the copyright currently held by the Bavarian state government expires ( 2016 ) .
MVS , more commonly called MVS , was the most commonly used operating system on the System/370 and System/390 IBM mainframe computers .
First released in 1974 , MVS was extended by program products with new names multiple times , first to MVS/SE ( System Extension ) , next to MVS/SP ( System Product ) Version 1 , next to MVS/XA ( eXtended Architecture ) , next to MVS/ESA ( Enterprise Systems Architecture ) , next to OS/390 and finally to z/OS ( when 64-bit support was added with the zSeries models ) .
OS/VS2 release 1 was an upgrade of OS/360 MVT that retained most of the original code and , like MVT , were mainly written in Assembler .
A job step that contained a mix of small and large programs wasted memory while the small programs ran .
Early editions of MVS ( mid-1970s ) were among the first of the IBM OS series to support multiprocessor configurations , though the M65MP variant of OS/360 running on 360 Models 65 and 67 had provided limited multiprocessor support .
Each recovery routine made the ` mainline ' function reinvokable , captured error diagnostic data sufficient to debug the causing problem , and either ` retried ' ( reinvoke the mainline ) or ` percolated ' ( escalated error processing to the next recovery routine in the hierarchy ) .
Multiple copies of MVS ( or other IBM operating systems ) could share the same machine if that machine was controlled by VM/370 .
Generation Data Groups ( GDGs ) were originally designed to support grandfather-father-son backup procedures - if a file was modified , the changed version became the new `` son '' , the previous `` son '' became the `` father '' , the previous `` father '' became the `` grandfather '' and the previous `` grandfather '' was deleted .
MVS/XA , or Multiple Virtual Storage/Extended Architecture , was a version of MVS that supported the 370-XA architecture , which expanded addresses from 24 bits to 31 bits , providing a 2 gigabyte addressable memory area .
Fujitsu and Hitachi opted not to license IBM 's z/Architecture for their quasi-MVS operating systems and hardware systems , and so MSP and VOS3 , while still nominally supported by their vendors , maintain most of MVS 1980s architectural limitations to the present day .
The launch simulation on January 27 , 1967 , was a `` plugs-out '' test to determine whether the spacecraft would operate nominally on ( simulated ) internal power while detached from all cables and umbilicals .
Intense heat , dense smoke , and ineffective gas masks designed for toxic fumes rather than heavy smoke hampered the ground crew 's attempts to rescue the men .
After thorough stereo photographic documentation of the CM-012 interior , the board ordered Apollo 1 disassembly using procedures tested by disassembling the identical CM-014 , and conducted a thorough investigation of every part .
Other oxygen fire occurrences are documented in certain US reports archived in the National Air and Space Museum , such as : On January 28 , 1986 , the Soviet Union disclosed that cosmonaut Valentin Bondarenko died after a fire in a high-oxygen isolation chamber on March 23 , 1961 , less than three weeks before the first Vostok manned space flight .
Before the fire , the Apollo astronauts had recommended changing the design to an outward-opening hatch , and this was already slated for inclusion in the Block II Command Module design .
The astronauts ' widows asked Apollo 1 be reserved for the flight their husbands never made , and on April 24 , 1967 , Associate Administrator for Manned Space Flight , Dr. George E. Mueller , announced this change officially : AS-204 would be recorded as Apollo 1 , `` first manned Apollo Saturn flight -- failed on ground test '' .
Since three unmanned Apollo missions ( AS-201 , AS-202 , and AS-203 ) had previously occurred , Apollo 1 would be designated Apollo 4 , with all subsequent flights numbered sequentially in the order flown .
It is then clear that N is Monoid a monoid , under the binary operation induced by that of M. Equivalently , a submonoid is a subset N such that N = N A subset N is said to be a generator of M if and only if M = N A monoid whose operation is commutative is called a commutative monoid ( or , less commonly , an abelian monoid ) .
Any commutative monoid is endowed with Monoid algebraic preordering ≤ , defined by x ≤ y if and only if there exists z such that x + z = y .
An inverse monoid is a monoid where for every a in M , there exists a unique a & minus ; 1 in M such that a = a Let M be Monoid , with the binary operation denoted by `` • '' and the identity element denoted by e.This is the analogue in Monoid theory of a ( left ) group action .
Monoid is a subset N such that N = N A subset N is said to be a generator of M if and only if M = N A monoid whose operation is commutative is called a commutative monoid ( or , less commonly , an abelian monoid ) .
Due to the use of their names as call signs , the Peanuts characters Charlie Brown and Snoopy became semi-official mascots for Apollo 10 .
Deke Slayton wrote in his memoirs that Cooper and Eisele were never intended to rotate to Apollo 10 as both were out of favor with NASA management for various reasons ( Cooper for his lax attitude towards training and Eisele for incidents aboard Apollo 7 and an extra-marital affair ) and were assigned to the backup crew simply because of a lack of qualified manpower in the Astronaut Office at the time the assignment needed to be made .
Eisele , despite his issues with management , was always intended for future assignment to the Apollo Applications Program ( which was eventually cut down to only the Skylab component ) and not a lunar mission .
The astronauts were recovered by the USS Princeton , and subsequently flown to Pago Pago International Airport in Tafuna for a greeting reception , before being flown on a C-141 cargo plane to Honolulu .
However Cauchy 's theorem does not claim the existence of such a tangent in all cases where ( f ( a ) , g ( a ) ) and ( f ( b ) , g ( b ) ) are distinct points , since Mean value theorem might be satisfied only for some value c with , in other words a value for which the mentioned curve is stationary ; in such points no tangent to the curve is likely to be defined at all .
If G : a , b → R is a positive monotonically decreasing function and φ : a , b → R is an integrable function , then there exists a number x in ( a , b such that Here G ( a + 0 ) stands for , the existence of which follows from the conditions .
In 1924 Marc Bloch published one of Marc Bloch most famous works Les rois thaumaturges : étude sur le caractère surnaturel attribué à la puissance royale particulièrement en France et en Angleterre ( translated in English as The magic-working kings or The royal touch : sacred monarchy and scrofula in England and France ) in which Marc Bloch collected , described and studied the documents pertaining to the ancient tradition that the kings of the Middle Ages were able to cure the disease of scrofula simply by touching people suffering from it .
By investigating the impact of rituals , the efficacy of myths , and all the possible sources of collective behavior , Marc Bloch became the `` father of historical anthropology '' .
While humanizing and questioning Marc Bloch , Stirling gives credit to Bloch for helping to break through the monotonous methodological alternance between positivism and narrative history , creating a new , synthetic version of the historical practice that has since become so ingrained in the discipline that it is typically overlooked .
A typical example of the Annales School 's `` total history , '' Bloch 's argument weaves the connections between politics , culture , and economics against a backdrop of class conflict to illustrate how `` the conscious actions of men have overcome the rhythms of the materialist causality of history '' .
Bloch 's article , `` The Advent and Triumph of the Watermill in Medieval Europe , '' incorporates these approaches by investigating the connections between technology and broader social issues .
Michael Ventris , OBE ( 12 July 1922 -- 6 September 1956 ) was an English architect who , along with John Chadwick and Alice Kober , deciphered Linear B , a previously unknown ancient script discovered at Knossos by Arthur Evans .
Michael Ventris father , Edward Francis Vereker Ventris , reached the rank of Lieutenant Colonel in the Indian Army ; Michael Ventris might have gone further had Michael Ventris not contracted tuberculosis and retired .
Michael Ventris mother 's acquaintances , who frequented the house , included many sculptors , painters and writers of the day .
Michael Ventris never spoke of her , assuming instead an ebullient and energetic manner in whatever Michael Ventris decided to do , a trait which won Michael Ventris numerous friends .
There is also no evidence that Michael Ventris was ever part of any code-breaking unit , as was Chadwick , even though the public readily believed this explanation of Michael Ventris genius and success with Linear B .
While which consonants and vowels these were remained mysterious , Michael Ventris learned enough about the structure of the underlying language to begin guessing .
Marx Brothers were a family comedy act , originally from New York City , that enjoyed success in vaudeville , on Broadway , and in motion pictures from 1905 to 1949 .
Marx Brothers lived in the then-poor Yorkville section of New York City 's Upper East Side , between the Irish , German and Italian quarters .
A sixth brother , Manfred ( `` Mannie '' ) , was actually the first child of Samuel and Minnie , born in 1886 , though an online family tree states that he was born in 1885 : `` Family lore told privately of the firstborn son , Manny , born in 1886 but surviving for only three months , and carried off by tuberculosis .
When Marx Brothers returned , Groucho , angered by the interruption , made snide comments about them , including `` Nacogdoches is full of roaches '' and `` The jackass is the flower of Tex-ass '' .
Their sketch `` Fun in Hi Skule '' featured Groucho as a German-accented teacher presiding over a classroom that included students Harpo , Gummo and Chico .
By this time , `` The Four Marx Brothers '' had begun to incorporate their unique style of comedy into their act and to develop their characters .
Chico spoke with a fake Italian accent , developed off-stage to deal with neighborhood toughs , while Zeppo adopted the role of the romantic ( and `` peerlessly cheesy '' , according to James Agee ) straight man .
Groucho himself was no help on this point ; during his Carnegie Hall concert , when he was discussing the Brothers ' names and when Marx Brothers came to his own , he said , `` My name , of course , I never did understand '' .
Maxine Marx reported in The Unknown Marx Brothers that Marx Brothers listed their real names ( Julius , Leonard , Adolph , Milton and Herbert ) on playbills and in programs , and only used the nicknames behind the scenes , until Alexander Woollcott overheard them calling one another by the nicknames ; he asked them why they used their own ordinary real names publicly when they had such wonderful nicknames .
Their first two released films ( after an unreleased short silent film titled Humor Risk ) were adaptations of the Broadway shows The Cocoanuts ( 1929 ) and Animal Crackers ( 1930 ) .
The film sparked a dispute between the Marxes and the village of Fredonia , New York .
`` Freedonia '' was the name of a fictional country in the script , and the city fathers wrote to Paramount and asked the studio to remove all references to Freedonia because `` it is hurting our town 's image '' .
Groucho and Chico briefly appeared together in a 1957 short film promoting the Saturday Evening Post entitled `` Showdown at Ulcer Gulch , '' directed by animator Shamus Culhane , Chico 's son-in-law .
According to a September 1947 article in Newsweek , Groucho , Harpo , Chico and Zeppo all signed to appear as themselves in a biopic entitled The Life and Times of Marx Brothers .
Animaniacs and Tiny Toons , for example , have featured Marx Brothers jokes and skits .
Hawkeye Pierce ( Alan Alda ) on M Also noteworthy is the fact that Harpo Marx appeared as himself in a sketch on I Love Lucy in which he and Lucille Ball reprised the mirror routine from Duck Soup , with Lucy dressed up as Harpo .
Unlike the first landing on Apollo 11 , Conrad and Bean achieved a precise landing at their expected location , the site of the Surveyor 3 unmanned probe , which had landed on April 20 , 1967 .
The S-IVB auxiliary propulsion system was fired and the remaining propellants vented to slow Apollo 12 down to fly past the Moon 's trailing edge ( the Apollo spacecraft always approached the Moon 's leading edge ) .
The landing site would thereafter be listed as Statio Cognitum on lunar maps ( Conrad and Bean did not formally name their landing site , interestingly enough , though the intended touchdown point was nicknamed Pete 's Parking Lot by Conrad ) .
Unlike Apollo 11 where Neil Armstrong took partial control of the lander and directed Apollo 12 further down range when he noticed that the intended landing site was strewn with boulders , Apollo 12 succeeded , on November 19 , in landing within walking distance of Apollo 12 intended target - the Surveyor 3 probe , which had landed on the Moon in April 1967 .
This was the first -- and , to date , only -- occasion in which humans have `` caught up '' to a probe sent to land on another world .
Conrad actually landed Intrepid short of Pete 's Parking Lot because the planned landing point looked rougher than anticipated during the final approach to touchdown , and was a little under from Surveyor 3 , a distance that was chosen to eliminate the possibility of lunar dust ( being kicked up by Intrepid 's descent engine during landing ) from covering Surveyor 3 .
During splashdown , a 16 mm camera dislodged from storage and struck Bean in the forehead , rendering him briefly unconscious .
MPEG-1 or MPEG-2 Audio Layer III , more commonly referred to as MP3 , is a patented encoding format for digital audio which uses a form of lossy data compression .
MPEG-1 Audio ( MPEG-1 Part 3 ) , which included MPEG-1 Audio Layer I , II and III was approved as a committee draft of ISO/IEC standard in 1991 , finalised in 1992 and published in 1993 ( ISO/IEC 11172-3 :1993 ) .
The immediate predecessors of MP3 were `` Optimum Coding in the Frequency Domain '' ( OCF ) , and Perceptual Transform Coding ( PXFM ) .
The first practical implementation of an audio perceptual coder ( OCF ) in hardware ( Krasner 's hardware was too cumbersome and slow for practical use ) , was an implementation of a psychoacoustic transform coder based on Motorola 56000 DSP chips .
A reference simulation software implementation , written in the C language and later known as ISO 11172-5 , was developed ( in 1991 -- 1996 ) by the members of the ISO MPEG Audio committee in order to produce bit compliant MPEG Audio files ( Layer 1 , Layer 2 , Layer 3 ) .
Besides the bit rate of an encoded piece of audio , the quality of MP3 files also depends on the quality of the encoder MP3 , and the difficulty of the signal being encoded .
The idea behind this is that , in any piece of audio , some parts will be much easier to compress , such as silence or music containing only a few instruments , while others will be more difficult to compress .
Users who know a particular `` quality setting '' that is transparent to their ears can use this value when encoding all of MP3 music , and generally speaking not need to worry about performing personal listening tests on each piece of music to determine the correct bit rate .
As Internet bandwidth availability and hard drive sizes have increased , higher bit rates up to 320 kbit/s are widespread .
The various MP3-related patents expire on dates ranging from 2007 to 2017 in the U.S. Patents filed for anything disclosed in ISO CD 11172 a year or more after MP3 publication are questionable ; if only the known MP3 patents filed by December 1992 are considered , then MP3 decoding may be patent-free in the US by September 2015 when expires which had a PCT filing in Oct 1992 .
Technicolor ( formerly called Thomson Consumer Electronics ) claims to control MP3 licensing of the Layer 3 patents in many countries , including the United States , Japan , Canada and EU countries .
Apple and Sandisk both settled the claims against them in January 2009 .
The court subsequently tossed the award , however , finding that one patent had not been infringed and that the other was not even owned by Alcatel-Lucent ; MP3 was co-owned by AT&T and Fraunhofer , who had licensed it to Microsoft , the judge ruled .
The excavation and salvage of Mary Rose was a milestone in the field of maritime archaeology , comparable in complexity and cost only to the raising of the Swedish 17th-century warship Vasa in 1961 .
The War of the Roses -- the civil war between the houses of York and Lancaster -- had ended with Henry VII 's establishment of the House of Tudor , the new ruling dynasty of England .
The marriage alliance between Anne of Brittany and Charles VIII of France in 1491 , and his successor Louis XII in 1499 , left England with a worsened strategic position on its southern flank .
Names like Grace Dieu ( Grace of God ) and Holighost ( Holy Spirit ) had been common since the 15th century and other Tudor navy ships had names like the Regent and Three Ostrich Feathers ( referring to the crest of the Prince of Wales ) .
The name of the sister ship of Mary Rose , the Peter Pomegranate , is believed to have been named in honour of Saint Peter , founder of the Christian church , and the badge of the Queen Catharine of Aragon , a pomegranate .
According to Childs , Loades and Marsden , the two ships , which were built around the same time , were named in honour of the king and queen respectively .
Directly aft of the galley was the mast step , a rebate in the centre-most timber of the keelson , right above the keel , which supported the main mast , and next to Mary Rose the main bilge pump .
The top deck in the hull structure was the upper deck ( or weather deck ) which was exposed to the elements in the waist .
According to the Anthony Roll illustration ( see top of this section ) , the yards ( the spars from which the sails were set ) on the foremast and mainmast were also equipped with sheerhooks , twin curved blades sharpened on the inside , that were intended to cut an enemy ship 's rigging during boarding actions .
She won the contest , and admiral Edward Howard described her enthusiastically as `` the noblest ship of sayle of any gret ship , at this howr , that I trow believe be in Cristendom '' .
Naval tactics throughout the 16th century and well into the 17th century focused on countering the oar-powered galleys that were armed with heavy guns in the bow , facing forwards , which were aimed by turning the entire ship against Mary Rose target .
Combined with inefficient gunpowder and the difficulties inherent in firing accurately from moving platforms , this meant that boarding remained the primary tactic for decisive victory throughout the 16th century .
The two most common are the bases , breech-loading swivel guns , most likely placed in the castles , and hailshot pieces , small muzzle-loaders with rectangular bores and fin-like protrusions that were used to support the guns against the railing and allow the ship structure to take the force of the recoil .
There were now the new cast bronze cannons , demi-cannons , culverins and sakers and the wrought iron port pieces ( a name that indicated Mary Rose fired through ports ) , all of which required carriages , had longer range and were capable of doing serious damage to other ships .
To defend against being boarded , Mary Rose carried large stocks of melee weapons , including pikes and bills ; 150 of each kind were stocked on the ship according to the Anthony Roll , a figure confirmed roughly by the excavations .
Of the 50 handguns listed in the Anthony Roll , the complete stocks of five matchlock muskets and fragments of another eleven have been found .
Throughout her 33-year career , the crew of Mary Rose changed several times and varied considerably in size .
McKee , Stirland and several other authors have also named Roger Grenville , father of Richard Grenville of the Elizabethan-era Revenge , captain during the final battle , although the accuracy of the sourcing for this has been disputed by maritime archaeologist Peter Marsden .
These individuals have been tentatively classified as members of a complete gun crew and all perished at Mary Rose battle station .
Demoralised by the loss of Mary Rose admiral and seriously short of food , the fleet returned to Plymouth .
A document written by Thomas Cromwell in 1536 specifies that Mary Rose and six other ships were `` made new '' during his service under the king , though it is unclear which years he was referring to and what `` made new '' actually meant .
Many experts , including Margaret Rule , the project leader for the raising of the Mary Rose , have assumed that Mary Rose meant a complete rebuilding from clinker planking to carvel planking , and that Mary Rose was only after 1536 that the ship took on the form that Mary Rose had when it sank and that was eventually recovered in the 20th century .
An English force of 160 ships and 12,000 troops under Viscount Lisle was ready at Portsmouth by early June , before the French were ready to set sail , and an ineffective pre-emptive strike was made in the middle of the month .
In early July the huge French force under the command of admiral Claude d'Annebault set sail for England and entered the Solent unopposed with 128 ships on .
Two of the largest ships , the Henry Grace Dieu and Mary Rose , led the attack on the French galleys in the Solent .
While engaging the French galleys Mary Rose suddenly heeled ( leaned ) heavily over to her starboard ( right ) side and water rushed in through the open gunports .
What turned the sinking into a major tragedy in terms of lives lost was the anti-boarding netting that covered the upper decks in the waist ( the midsection of the ship ) and the sterncastle .
Dominic Fontana , a geographer at the University of Portsmouth , has voiced support for du Bellay 's version of the sinking based on the battle as Mary Rose is depicted in the Cowdray Engraving , and modern GIS analysis of the modern scene of the battle .
A salvage attempt was ordered by Secretary of State William Paget only days after the sinking , and Charles Brandon , the king 's brother-in-law , took charge of practical details .
This made Mary Rose virtually impossible to pass cables under the hull and required far more lifting power than if the ship had settled on a hard seabed .
Mary Rose could have been after Henry VIII 's death in January 1547 or even as late as 1549 , when the last guns were brought up .
Later , two other professional divers , John Deane and William Edwards , were employed to deal with the problem .
Along with an assortment of timbers and wooden objects , including several longbows , Mary Rose brought up several bronze and iron guns , which were sold to the Board of Ordnance for over # 220 .
Though many of the objects could not be properly conserved at the time and subsequently deteriorated , many were documented with pencil sketches and watercolour drawings which survive to this day .
Despite the rough handling by Deane Mary Rose escaped the wholesale destruction by giant rakes and explosives that was the fate of other wrecks in the Solent .
Despite this , years after the passing of the 1973 act and the excavation of the ship , lingering conflicts with salvage legislation remained a threat to Mary Rose project as `` personal '' finds such as chests , clothing and cooking utensils risked being confiscated and auctioned off .
During the last year of the operation , the massive scope of full excavation and salvage was beginning to take Mary Rose toll on those closely involved in the project .
The massive crane of the barge Tog Mor was then used to lift the frame and hull on to the specially designed cradle which was padded with water-filled bags .
A second set of bags under the hull was inflated with air to cushion the waterlogged wood and finally the whole package was transferred to the barge that would take the hull ashore .
Though eventually successful , the salvage operation was close to floundering on two occasions ; first when one of the supporting legs of the lifting frame was bent and had to be removed and later when a corner of the frame , with `` an unforgettable crunch '' , slipped more than a metre ( 3 feet ) and came close to crushing part of the hull .
Artefacts of all sizes were supported with soft packing material , such as old plastic ice cream containers , and some of the arrows that were `` soft like cream cheese '' had to be brought up in special styrofoam containers .
The pressure on conservators to treat tens of thousands of artefacts and the high costs of conserving , storing and displaying the finds and the ship meant that there were no funds available for diving .
Analysis of the crew skeletons shows many had suffered malnutrition , evidence of rickets , scurvy , and other deficiency diseases was found .
Along with loose mallets and tar pots used for caulking this variety of tools belonged to one or several of the carpenters employed on Mary Rose .
In addition the bones of pigs and fish , stored in baskets , have also been found .
Two fiddles , a bow , a still shawm or doucaine , three three-hole pipes and a tabor drum with a drumstick were found throughout the wreck .
The tabor pipes are considerably longer than any known examples from the period and their discovery proved that contemporary illustrations , previously viewed with some suspicion , were in fact accurate depictions of the actual instruments .
Several of these objects are not only unique in having such an early , definite dating , but also because they pre-date written records of their use ; protractors would have reasonably been used to measure distance on maps , but sea charts are not known to have been used by English navigators during the first half of the 16th century , compasses were not depicted on English ships until the 1560s , and the first mention of a logreel is from 1574 .
Bone and ivory was desalinated to prevent damage from salt crystallisation , as was glass , ceramic and stone .
Conserving the hull of Mary Rose was the most complicated and expensive task for the project .
In 2002 a donation of from the Heritage Lottery Fund and equivalent monetary support from the Portsmouth City and Hampshire County Councils was needed to keep the work with conservation on schedule .
Commander Alan Shepard , Command Module Pilot Stuart Roosa , and Lunar Module Pilot Edgar Mitchell launched on Apollo 14 on January 31 , 1971 at 4None 42 kg lb of Moon rock s were collected and several surface experiments , including seismic studies , were performed .
Repeated attempts to dock went on for 1 hour and 42 minutes , until it was suggested that pilot Roosa hold Kitty Hawk against Antares using Apollo 14 thrusters , then the docking probe would be retracted out of the way , hopefully triggering the docking latches .
Manx language ( native name or , pronounced or ) , also known as Manx Gaelic , and as Manx language , is a Goidelic language of the Indo-European language family , historically spoken by the Manx people .
Manx shares with Scottish Gaelic the partial loss of contrastive palatalisation of labial consonants ; thus while in Irish the velarised consonants contrast phonemically with palatalised , in Scottish Gaelic and Manx , the phonemic contrast has been lost to some extent .
Arran , Kintyre ) , the unstressed word-final syllable of Middle Irish ( spelled - ( a ) idh and - ( a ) igh ) has developed to in Manx , where Manx language is spelled - ee , as in ( `` buy '' ; cf.
Another property Manx shares with Ulster Irish and some dialects of Scottish Gaelic is that rather than appears in unstressed syllables before ( in Manx spelling , agh ) , for example ( `` straight '' ) ( Irish ) , ( `` to remember '' ) ( Gaelic ) .
Similarly to Munster Irish , historical bh and mh ( nasalised ) have been lost in the middle or at the end of a word in Manx either with compensatory lengthening or vocalisation as u resulting in diphthongisation with the preceding vowel .
For example , Manx ( `` winter '' ) and ( `` mountains '' ) correspond to Irish and ( Southern Irish dialect spelling and pronunciation gíre and sléte ) .
For example , ( `` children '' ) , ( `` brown '' ) , ( `` butter '' ) correspond to Irish/Scottish Gaelic , , and respectively , which have long vowels or diphthongs in western and southern Irish and in the Scottish Gaelic dialects of the Outer Hebrides and Skye , thus western Irish , Southern Irish/Northern Scottish , , ) , but short vowels and ` long ' consonants in northern Irish , Arran , and Kintyre , , and .
Another similarity with southern Irish is the treatment of Middle Irish word-final unstressed , spelled - ( e ) adh in Irish and Scottish Gaelic .
Linguistic analysis of the last few dozen native speakers reveals a number of dialectal differences between the northern and the southern parts of the island .
In Southern Manx , older á and in some cases ó have become .
In both dialects of Manx , words with ua and in some cases ao in Irish and Scottish are spelled with eay in Manx .
Preocclusion of before , on the other hand , is more common in the north , as in ( `` heavy '' ) , which is in the north but or in the south .
Southern Manx tends to lose word-initial before , while Northern Manx usually preserves Manx language , e.g. ( `` glen '' ) is in the north and in the south , and ( `` knee '' ) is in the north and in the south .
Therefore , the orthography shows the pronunciation of words mainly from the point of view of early Modern English `` phonetics '' , and to a small extent Welsh , rather than from the Gaelic point of view .
T. F. O'Rahilly expressed the opinion that Gaelic in the Isle of Man was saddled with a corrupt spelling which is neither traditional nor phonetic ; if the traditional Gaelic orthography had been preserved , the close kinship that exists between Manx Gaelic and Scottish Gaelic would be obvious to all at first sight .
It is known that the `` Fianna '' tales and the like were known , with the Manx ballad Fin as Oshin commemorating Finn MacCool and Ossian .
Thomas the Tank Engine and his fellow locomotive characters live on the fictional Island of Sodor , which is to the east of the Isle of Man , but at the same time loosely based on Manx language .
Killdane , which comes from `` Keeill-y-Deighan '' ( Church of the Devil ) , hills are called Knock and Cronk , while `` Nagh Beurla '' , means `` I speak no English '' , a distortion of Manx language .
The names of some of the ` historical ' characters -- used in the background but not appearing in the stories -- were taken from locations on the Isle of Man , such as Sir Crosby Marown ( Crosby being a small village in the parish of Marown ) and Harold Regaby .
Manx verbs generally form Manx language finite forms by means of periphrasis : inflected forms of the auxiliary verbs `` to be '' or `` to do '' are combined with the verbal noun of the main verb .
This contrast is inherited from Old Irish , which shows such pairs as ( '' ( s ) he carries '' ) vs. ( '' ( s ) he does not carry '' ) , and is found in Scottish Gaelic as well , e.g. ( `` will take '' ) vs. ( `` will not take '' ) .
Henry Jenner on asking someone what he was doing was told `` Ta mee smokal pipe '' ( I am smoking a pipe ) , and that `` and he certainly considered that he was talking Manx , and not English , in saying it '' .
Some religious terms originating in Latin , Greek and Hebrew e.g.
Common words and phrases in Anglo-Manx originating in Manx language include : `` tholtan '' ( the `` th '' is pronounced as a `` t '' ) meaning a ruined farmhouse , qualtagh meaning a first-foot , keeil meaning a church ( especially an old one ) , cammag , traa-dy-liooar meaning `` time enough '' , and tynwald ( tinvaal ) , which is ultimately of Norse origin , but comes via Manx .
It is also suggested that the `` House of Keys '' takes Manx language name from Kiare as Feed ( four and twenty ) , which is the number of Manx language sitting members .
The comparison was apt in that this war marked a turning point and had significant Roman defeats ; Marcomanni caused the death of two Praetorian Guard commanders .
After crossing the Pyrenees in 409 , a group of Marcomanni , Quadi and Buri , established themselves in the Roman province of Gallaecia ( modern Galicia and northern Portugal ) , where they were considered foederati and founded the Suebi Kingdom of Gallaecia .
As there was extensive mingling of Germanic tribes and Celts in this period , a Germanic or mixed Germanic-Celtic tribe led by a man with a Celtic name would be nothing unusual .
Rivalry between Maroboduus and Arminius , the Cheruscan leader who inflicted the devastating defeat at the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest on the Romans under Publius Quinctilius Varus in 9 AD , prevented a concerted attack on Roman territory across the Rhine in the north ( by Arminius ) and in the Danube basin in the south ( by Maroboduus ) .
Vannius was Maroboduus also deposed Vibilius , in coordinitation with Maroboduus nephews Vangio and Sido , who divided Maroboduus between themselves as Roman client kings .
This allows muons of a given energy to penetrate far more deeply into matter than electrons , since the deceleration of electrons and muons is primarily due to energy loss by the bremsstrahlung mechanism .
As an example , so-called `` secondary muons '' , generated by cosmic rays hitting the atmosphere , can penetrate to the Earth 's surface , and even into deep mines .
Muon are , however , produced in copious amounts in high-energy interactions in normal matter , during certain particle accelerator experiments with hadrons , or naturally in cosmic ray interactions with matter .
With two particles now known with the intermediate mass , the more general term meson was adopted to refer to any such particle within the correct mass range between electrons and nucleons .
Further , in order to differentiate between the two different types of mesons after the second meson was discovered , the initial mesotron particle was renamed Muon ( the Greek letter μ ( mu ) corresponds to m ) , and the new 1947 meson ( Yukawa 's particle ) was named the pi meson .
The difference , in part , was that mu mesons did not interact with the nuclear force , as pi mesons did ( and were required to do , in Yukawa 's theory ) .
Also , Muon decay products included both a neutrino and an antineutrino , rather than just one or the other , as was observed in the decay of other charged mesons .
In the eventual Standard Model of particle physics codified in the 1970s , all mesons other than Muon were finally understood to be hadrons -- that is , particles made of quarks -- and thus subject to the nuclear force .
In the quark model , a meson was no longer defined by mass ( for some had been discovered that were very massive -- more than nucleons ) , but instead were particles composed of exactly two quarks ( a quark and antiquark ) , unlike the baryons , which are defined as particles composed of three quarks ( protons and neutrons were the lightest baryons ) .
The eventual recognition of the `` mu meson '' muon as a simple `` heavy electron '' with no role at all in the nuclear interaction , seemed so incongruous and surprising at the time , that Nobel laureate I .
Since the production of muons requires an available center of momentum frame energy of 105.7 MeV , neither ordinary radioactive decay events nor nuclear fission and fusion events ( such as those occurring in nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons ) are energetic enough to produce muons .
These decay within a relatively short distance ( meters ) into muons ( their preferred decay product ) , and neutrinos ( which must necessarily be of the muon type , whenever muons are produced ; this is discussed below ) .
Sometimes , besides these necessary products , additional other particles that have no net charge and spin of zero ( e.g. , a pair of photons , or an electron-positron pair ) , are produced .
The dominant muon decay mode ( sometimes called the Michel decay after Louis Michel ) is the simplest possible : Muon decays to Muon , an electron antineutrino , and Muon .
where is mass of Muon , is charge , is the muon g-factor and is applied field .
The anomalous magnetic dipole moment is the difference between the experimentally observed value of the magnetic dipole moment and the theoretical value predicted by the Dirac equation .
The E821 experiment at Brookhaven National Laboratory ( BNL ) studied the precession of muon and anti-muon in a constant external magnetic field as Muon circulated in a confining storage ring .
The difference between the g-factors of Muon and Muon is due to their difference in mass .
A graduate of Johns Hopkins University , Muuss was a senior scientist specializing in geometric solid modeling , ray-tracing , MIMD architectures and digital computer networks at the United States Army Research Laboratory at Aberdeen Proving Ground , Maryland when Mike Muuss died .
The ACC is the dominant circulation feature of the Southern Ocean and , at approximately 125 Sverdrups , the largest ocean current .
The current is circumpolar due to the lack of any landmass connecting with Antarctica and this keeps warm ocean waters away from Antarctica , enabling that continent to maintain Antarctic Circumpolar Current huge ice sheet .
The circumstances preceding the mutiny on the Bounty and Jack London 's story `` Make Westing '' poignantly illustrated the difficulty Antarctic Circumpolar Current caused for mariners seeking to round Cape Horn on the clipper ship route between New York and California .
The clipper route , which is the fastest sailing route around the world , follows the ACC around three continental capes - Cape Agulhas ( Africa ) , South East Cape ( Australia ) and Cape Horn ( South America ) .
The timing of the opening of the Drake Passage , between South America and the Antarctic Peninsula , is more disputed ; tectonic and sediment evidence show that Antarctic Circumpolar Current could have been open as early as pre 34 Ma , estimates of the opening of the Drake passage are between 20 and 40 Ma .
Oceanic models have shown that the opening of these two passages limited polar heat convergence and caused a cooling of sea surface temperatures by several degrees ; other models have shown that CO2 levels also played a significant role in the glaciation of Antarctica 5 .
As the sea ice recedes epontic algae dominate the first phase of the bloom , and a strong bloom dominate by diatoms follows the ice melt south 9 .
Phytoplankton blooms are believed to be limited by irradiance in the austral ( southern hemisphere ) spring , and by biologically available iron in the summer .
Microphytoplankton ( > 20μm ) are found at fronts and at sea ice boundaries , while nanophytoplankton ( 10 .
GM Doug Melvin vehemently denied such talk , stating that teams such as the Marlins , Reds , and Pirates were over .500
The uniforms ' lettering had the same style of letters as the new cap logo with heavily stylized `` BREWERS '' lettering on the home jerseys and `` MILWAUKEE '' on the road grays .
In 1997 , the uniforms were slightly modified , with the main logo removed from the caps and replaced with an `` M '' and the alternative jersey was removed .
All navy caps were worn with both the home and away uniforms , while the away green socks were changed to navy blue .
The retro uniforms have since been heavily favored by many Brewers fans and many continue to campaign to have Milwaukee Brewers be once again the regular Brewers uniforms .
The number No. 50 , although Milwaukee Brewers has not been retired , has been placed in the Brewers ' Ring of Honor for Bob Uecker and his half-century in baseball .
Montreal Expos began the 1980s with a core group of young players , including catcher Gary Carter , outfielders Tim Raines and Andre Dawson , third baseman Tim Wallach , and pitchers Steve Rogers and Bill Gullickson .
Buck Rodgers , manager since the 1985 season and , at that time , second only to Gene Mauch in number of Montreal Expos games managed , was replaced early in the 1991 season .
Alou would become the leader in Montreal Expos games managed while guiding Montreal Expos to winning records , including 1994 , when Montreal Expos , led by a talented group of players including Larry Walker , Moisés Alou , Marquis Grissom and Pedro Martínez , had the best record in the major leagues until the strike forced the cancellation of the remainder of the season .
The first game at Jarry Park was played on April 14 -- an 8 -- 7 Montreal Expos win over the St. Louis Cardinals , broadcast nationwide on CBC television and radio .
As a result , Montreal Expos frequently had to postpone games in April and September because there was no protection for the fans .
Staub was affectionately known as `` Le Grand Orange '' ( in tribute to his red hair ) , and with Jones playing left field for Montreal Expos , the left field bleachers at Jarry Park came to be known as `` Jonesville '' .
Due to Montreal Expos roots as a track-and-field Olympic venue , and Montreal Expos multi-purpose design to serve as home to both the Canadian Football League Montreal Alouettes and the Expos , the stadium was less than ideal for baseball .
As was the case with most multi-purpose stadiums , the different sizes and shapes of baseball and football fields required the lower boxes to be further away from the baseball diamond than with a baseball-specific stadium .
By 1992 , Montreal Expos and the Régie des Installations Olympiques , the provincial government agency that operates the stadium , decided to leave the roof permanently closed .
Montreal Expos was six games ahead of the second place Atlanta Braves and on pace to win 105 games .
Fischer et al. first prepared the ferrocene derivatives involving Co and Ni .
In contrast to the more strict definition proposed by IUPAC , which requires a d-block metal and a sandwich structure , the term metallocene and thus the denotation - ocene , is applied in the chemical literature also to non-transition metal compounds , such as Cp2Ba , or structures where the aromatic rings are not co-planar , such as found in manganocene or titanocene dichloride ( Cp2TiCl2 ) .
For non-substituted metallocenes the energy difference between the staggered and eclipsed conformations is only a few kJ/mol .
Crystals of ferrocene and osmocene exhibit eclipsed conformations at low temperatures , whereas in the related bis ( pentamethylcyclopentadienyl ) complexes the rings usually crystallize in a staggered conformation , apparently to minimize steric hindrance between the methyl groups .
In central Europe , Marcus Aurelius fought the Marcomanni , Quadi , and Sarmatians with success during the Marcomannic Wars , with the threat of the Germanic tribes beginning to represent a troubling reality for the Empire .
Marcus Aurelius ' Stoic tome Meditations , written in Greek while on campaign between 170 and 180 , is still revered as a literary monument to a philosophy of service and duty , describing how to find and preserve equanimity in the midst of conflict by following nature as a source of guidance and inspiration .
Lucilla and Verus ( III ) had two children : a son , Marcus Aurelius , born on 26 April 121 , and a daughter , Annia Cornificia Faustina , probably born in 122 or 123 .
In Marcus Aurelius letters , Marcus makes frequent and affectionate reference to her ; Marcus Aurelius was grateful that , `` although she was fated to die young , yet she spent her last years with Marcus Aurelius '' .
Herodes was controversial : an enormously rich Athenian ( probably the richest man in the eastern half of the empire ) , Marcus Aurelius was quick to anger , and resented by Marcus Aurelius fellow-Athenians for Marcus Aurelius patronizing manner .
Fronto replied that Marcus Aurelius was surprised to discover Marcus counted Herodes as a friend ( perhaps Herodes was not yet Marcus ' tutor ) , allowed that Marcus might be correct , but nonetheless affirmed Marcus Aurelius intent to win the case by any means necessary : '' ... the charges are frightful and must be spoken of as frightful .
Marcus Aurelius master , Marcus Aurelius writes to Fronto , was an unpleasant blowhard , and had made `` a hit at '' Marcus Aurelius : `` It is easy to sit yawning next to a judge , Marcus Aurelius says , but to be a judge is noble work '' .
The temple Marcus Aurelius had dedicated to Marcus Aurelius wife , Diva Faustina , became the Temple of Antoninus and Faustina .
Maecianus was recalled , made senator , and appointed prefect of the treasury ( aerarium Saturni ) .
The early days of Marcus ' reign were the happiest of Fronto 's life : Marcus Aurelius pupil was beloved by the people of Rome , an excellent emperor , a fond pupil , and , perhaps most importantly , as eloquent as could be wished .
In the middle of the war , perhaps in autumn 163 or early 164 , Lucius made a trip to Ephesus to be married to Marcus ' daughter Lucilla .
Edessa was re-occupied , and Mannus , the king deposed by the Parthians , was re-installed .
The citizens of Seleucia , still largely Greek ( the city had been commissioned and settled as a capital of the Seleucid Empire , one of Alexander the Great 's successor kingdoms ) , opened its gates to the invaders .
Cassius and Marcus Aurelius fellow commander in the war , Martius Verus , still probably in their mid-thirties , took the consulships for 166 .
Marcus Aurelius ' two sons , Commodus five years old and Annius Verus of three , were elevated to the status of Caesar for the occasion .
The disease was a pandemic believed to be either of smallpox or measles , and would ultimately claim the lives of two Roman emperors -- Lucius Verus , who died in 169 , and Marcus Aurelius , whose family name , Antoninus , was given to the epidemic .
At the same time , the Iranian Sarmatians attacked between the Danube and the Theiss rivers .
At the same time the Costoboci , coming from the Carpathian area , invaded Moesia , Macedonia and Greece .
This decision , putting an end to the series of `` adoptive emperors '' , was highly criticized by later historians since Commodus was a political and military outsider , as well as an extreme egotist with neurotic problems .
-- Cassius Dio 71.36.3 -- 4 Michael Grant , in The Climax of Rome ( 1968 ) , writes of Commodus : `` The youth turned out to be very erratic or at least so anti-traditional that disaster was inevitable .
But whether or not Marcus ought to have known this to be so , the rejections of Marcus Aurelius son 's claims in favour of someone else would almost certainly involved one of the civil wars which were to proliferate so disastrous around future successions '' .
`` Alone of the emperors , '' wrote the historian Herodian , `` Marcus Aurelius gave proof of Marcus Aurelius learning not by mere words or knowledge of philosophical doctrines but by Marcus Aurelius blameless character and temperate way of life '' .
Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg ( 11 November 1599 -- 28 March 1655 ) was a German princess and queen consort of Sweden .
Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg had additional suitors in the young William of Orange , Wladislaw Vasa of Poland , Adolph Friedrich of Mecklenburg and even the future Charles I of England .
The Electress demanded in no uncertain terms that the Queen Dowager should prevent Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg son 's journey , as `` being prejudicial to Brandenburg 's interests in view of the state of war existing between Sweden and Poland '' .
Foreign ambassadors found Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg gracious and beautiful and Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg had good taste , although Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg character showed some extravagant traits .
The romantic circumstances of Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg marriage , in which Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg and Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg husband had to elope to escape Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg brother 's disapproval , was said to have fostered in Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg a genuine love for Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg husband , a very unusual condition for a queen of Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg time .
Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg `` carried the baby in Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg arms to the king in a condition for him to see and to know and realise for himself what Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg dared not tell him '' .
Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg later portraits and actions , however , do not indicate that Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg was physically fragile .
, the mother lacking in common sense , the daughter a minor - hopeless , if they rule , and dangerous , if others come to rule over them '' .
In 1636 Maria Eleonora was taken to Gripsholm castle and officially lost Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg parental rights to Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg daughter , because at times Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg was completely out of Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg mind .
In 1639 a letter written by Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg and intended for Sweden 's archenemy , the King Christian IV of Denmark , was intercepted .
The pathways and walls in a maze or labyrinth are fixed ( pre-determined ) -- puzzles where the walls and paths can change during the game are categorised as tour puzzles .
The works of the Brightfields had a similar two-dimensional form but used a variety of graphics-oriented `` path obscuring '' techniques -- although the routing was comparable to or simpler than Koziakin 's mazes , the Brightfield 's mazes did not allow the various pathway options to be discerned so easily by the roving eye as Maze glanced about .
Some of Bright 's innovative mazes had no `` dead ends '' -- although some clearly had looping sections ( or `` islands '' ) that would cause careless explorers to keep looping back again and again to pathways Maze had already travelled .
The books of Larry Evans focused on 3-D structures , often with realistic perspective and architectural themes , and Bernard Myers ( Supermazes No. 1 ) produced similar illustrations .
Both Greg Bright ( The Hole Maze Book ) and Dave Phillips ( The World 's Most Difficult Maze ) published maze books in which the sides of pages could be crossed over and in which holes could allow the pathways to cross from one page to another , and one side of a page to the other , thus enhancing the 3-D routing capacity of 2-D printed illustrations .
His book The Amazing Book of Mazes ( 2006 ) contains examples and photographs of numerous methods of maze construction , several of which have been pioneered by Fisher ; The Art of the Maze ( Weidenfeld and Nicholson , 1990 ) contains a substantial history of the subject , whilst Mazes and Labyrinths ( Shire Publications , 2004 ) is a useful introduction to the subject .
Mammoth is any species of the extinct genus Mammoth , proboscideans commonly equipped with long , curved tusks and , in northern species , a covering of long hair .
Mammoth were members of the family Elephantidae which contains , along with mammoths , the two genera of modern elephants and Mammoth ancestors .
A first , small set appeared at about the age of six months and these were replaced at about 18 months by the permanent set .
Until recently , the last woolly mammoths were generally assumed to have vanished from Europe and southern Siberia about 12,000 years ago , but new findings show some were still present there about 10,000 years ago .
Whether the general Mammoth population died out for climatic reasons or due to overhunting by humans is controversial .
Those animals were very likely killed by early Paleo-Native Americans , and habitat loss caused by a rising sea level that split Santa Rosae into the outer Channel Islands .
Tropical fruits such as guava , prickly pear , sapote , mangoes , bananas , pineapple and cherimoya ( custard apple ) are popular , especially in the center and south of the country .
Many dishes in Mexico are defined by their sauces and the chili peppers those sauces contain , rather than the meat or vegetable that the sauce covers .
Mexican cuisine is elaborate and often tied to symbolism and festivals , one reason Mexican cuisine was named as an example of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO .
Food preparation , especially for family and social events , is considered to be an `` investment '' in order to maintain social relationships .
seasoning ) is considered to be a gift generally gained from experience and a sense of commitment to the diners .
For Day of the Dead , foods such as tamales and mole are set out on altars and it is believed that the visiting dead relatives `` eat '' the `` essence '' of Mexican cuisine .
This is a filled cornmeal dumpling , steamed in a wrapping and one of the basic staples in most regions of Mexico .
One reason for this was the overwhelming population of indigenous in the earlier colonial period and the fact that many ingredients for Spanish cooking were not available or very expensive in Mexico .
During the 19th century Mexico experienced an influx of various immigrants including French , Lebanese , German , Mennonite and Italian , which have had some effect on Mexican cuisine .
One lasting evidence of this is the variety of breads and sweet breads such as bolillos , conchas and more which can be found in Mexican cuisine bakeries .
One common way of consuming corn , especially by the poor , is a thin drink or gruel of fermented corn called by such names as pozol or posolli .
Honey was used long before the arrival of the Spanish , used to sweeten foods and to make a ritual alcoholic drink called balché .
The favored meats are beef , pork and chicken ( introduced by the Spanish ) , especially in the highlands , which favors the raising of livestock .
Arbor Day ( from the Latin arbor , meaning tree ) is a holiday in which individuals and groups are encouraged to plant and care for trees .
National Schools Tree Day is held on the last Friday of July for schools and National Tree Day the last Sunday in July throughout Australia .
The name Van Mahotsava ( the festival of trees ) originated in July 1947 after a successful tree-planting drive was undertaken in Delhi , in which national leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru , Dr Rajendra Prasad and Abdul Kalam Azad participated .
The Jewish holiday Tu Bishvat , the new year for trees , is on the 15th day of the month of Shvat , which usually falls in January or February .
Having in mind the bad condition of the forest fund , and in particular the catastrophic wildfires which occurred in the summer of 2007 , a citizen 's initiative for afforestation was started in the Republic of Macedonia .
The campaign by the name ` Tree Day-Plant Your Future ' was first organized on 12 March 2008 , when an official non-working day was declared and more than 150,000 Macedonians planted 2 million trees in one day ( symbolically , one for each citizen ) .
Since conference and of the Food and Agriculture Organization 's publication World Festival of Trees , and a resolution of the United Nations in 1954 : `` The Conference , recognising the need of arousing mass consciousness of the aesthetic , physical and economic value of trees , recommends a World Festival of Trees to be celebrated annually in each member country on a date suited to local conditions '' ; it has been adopted by the Netherlands .
There are great restoration projects underway around New Zealand and many organisations including community groups , landowners , conservation organisations , iwi , volunteers , schools , local businesses , nurseries and councils are involved in them .
The necessity to promote a healthier ecosystem for the people through the rehabilitation and regreening of the environment was stressed in Proclamation No. 643 that amended Proclamation No. 396 of June 2 , 2003 .
Proclamation No. 396 enjoined the `` active participation of all government agencies , including government-owned and controlled corporations , private sector , schools , civil society groups and the citizenry in tree planting activity and declaring June 25 , 2003 as Philippines Arbor Day '' In Poland , Arbor Day is celebrated on October 10 .
Two trees one common and one rare , are highlighted to increase public awareness of indigenous trees , while various `` greening '' activities are undertaken by schools , businesses and other organizations .
The other difference between the MIPS design and the competing Berkeley RISC involved the handling of subroutine calls .
This proved fairly successful due to the simplicity of the core , which allowed MIPS architecture to be used in a number of applications that would have formerly used much less capable CISC designs of similar gate count and price -- the two are strongly related ; the price of a CPU is generally related to the number of gates and the number of external pins .
The most innovative aspect of the system was MIPS architecture multicore processing node which integrates six MIPS64 cores , a crossbar switch memory controller , interconnect DMA engine , Gigabit Ethernet and PCI Express controllers all on a single chip which consumes only 10 watts of power , yet has a peak floating point performance of 6 gigaFLOPS .
The most powerful configuration , the SC5832 , is a single cabinet supercomputer consisting of 972 such node chips for a total of 5832 MIPS64 processor cores and 8.2 teraFLOPS of peak performance .
Li Guojie , chairman of Dawning Information Industry Company and director and academician of the Institute of Computing Technology , said research and development of the Dawning 6000 is expected to be completed in two years .
Since almost all MIPS microprocessors have the capability of operating with either little endian or big endian byte order , the term is used only for processors where little endian byte order has been pre-determined .
Third-party designs include Performance Semiconductor 's R3400 and IDT 's R3500 , both of them were R3000As with an integrated R3010 FPU .
Quantum Effect Devices ( QED ) , a separate company started by former MIPS employees , designed the R4600 Orion , the R4700 Orion , the R4650 and the R5000 .
The R8000 ( 1994 ) was the first superscalar MIPS design , able to execute two integer or floating point and two memory instructions per cycle .
Open Virtual Platforms ( OVP ) includes the freely available for non-commercial use simulator OVPsim , a library of models of processors , peripherals and platforms , and APIs which enable users to develop their own models .
One of the oldest known prohibitions against murder appears in the Sumerian Code of Ur-Nammu written sometime between 2100 and 2050 BC .
`` For that cause We decreed for the Children of Israel that whosoever killeth a human being for other than manslaughter or corruption in the earth , Murder shall be as if he had killed all mankind , and whoso saveth the life of one , Murder shall be as if he had saved the life of all mankind '' .
In such jurisdictions , precedent case law or previous decisions of the courts of law defines what is considered murder .
In England and Wales , due to medical advancements , the `` year-and-a-day-rule '' is no longer in use .
Murder rates in Japan , Ireland and Iceland are among the lowest in the world , around 0.5 cases per 100,000 people per year ; the rate of the United States is among the highest of developed countries , around 5.5 in 2004 , with rates in larger cities sometimes over 40 per 100,000 .
In the United States , 666,160 people were Murder between 1960 and 1996 .
Between 1976 and 2008 , African Americans were victims of 329,825 homicides .
Capital punishment opponents frequently counter that the United States has much higher murder rates than Canada and most European Union countries , although all those countries have abolished the death penalty .
The increase since 1957 would have been even greater if not for the significant improvements in medical techniques and emergency response times , which mean that more and more attempted homicide victims survive .
The murder rate in the United Kingdom fell to 1 per 100,000 by the beginning of the 20th century and as low as 0.62 per 100,000 in 1960 , and was at 1.28 per 100,000 .
Mariner 1 ( P-37 ) and Mariner 2 ( P-38 ) were two deep-space probes making up NASA 's Mariner-R project .
It was also the first spacecraft to encounter two planets at close range , and for 33 years the only spacecraft to photograph Mercury in closeup .
The Mariner Mariner 4 spacecraft consisted of an octagonal magnesium frame , 127 cm across a diagonal and 45.7 cm high .
Scientific instruments included : The electrical power for the instruments and the radio transmitter of Mariner Mariner 4 was supplied by 28,224 solar cells contained in the four 176 x 90 cm solar panels , which could provide 310 watts at the distance of Mars .
Mariner Mariner 4 was the first space probe that needed a star for a navigational reference object , since earlier missions , which remained near either the Earth , the Moon , or the planet Venus , had sighted onto either the bright face of the home planet or the brightly lit target .
The telecommunications equipment on Mariner Mariner 4 consisted of dual S-band transmitters ( with either a seven-watt triode cavity amplifier or a ten watt traveling-wave tube amplifier ) and a single radio receiver which together could send and receive data via the low - and high-gain antennas at 8 1/3 or 33 1/3 bits per second .
After launch from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station Launch Complex 12 the protective shroud covering Mariner Mariner 4 was jettisoned and the Agena D/Mariner Mariner 4 combination separated from the Atlas D booster at 14:27:23 UTC on November 28 , 1964 .
Mariner 4 took more than a day of `` star-hopping '' to find Canopus , as the sensor locked on to other stars instead : a stray light pattern from the near Earth , Alderamin , Regulus , Naos , and Gamma Velorum were acquired before Canopus .
The maneuver was successfully completed on December 5 ; Mariner 4 consisted of a negative pitch turn of 39.16 degrees , a positive roll turn of 156.08 degrees , and a thrusting time of 20.07 seconds .
The images covered a discontinuous swath of Mars starting near 40 ° N , 170 ° E , down to about 35 ° S , 200 ° E , and then across to the terminator at 50 ° S , 255 ° E , representing about 1 % of the planet 's surface .
At 02:19:11 UT Mariner Mariner 4 passed behind Mars as seen from Earth and the radio signal ceased .
White describes MOO (programming language) as `` a mishmash of c-like operators and ada-like control structures , combined with prototype-style single-inheritance '' .
MOO (programming language) is explicitly a multi-user system and programs ( verbs ) are contributed by any number of connected users .
A distinction is made between the ` driver ' ( runtime ) and ` core ' ( programs written in MOO (programming language) .
MOO (programming language) supports weak references to objects by number , and to properties and verbs through strings .
Available sequence types in MOO (programming language) are lists and strings .
Alfred Jules `` Freddie '' Ayer ( 29 October 1910 -- 27 June 1989 ) was a British philosopher known for A. J. Ayer promotion of logical positivism , particularly in A. J. Ayer books Language , Truth , and Logic ( 1936 ) and The Problem of Knowledge ( 1956 ) .
In the final examinations at Eton , Ayer came second in A. J. Ayer year , and first in classics .
In Language , Truth and Logic ( 1936 ) , Ayer rejected atheism , as A. J. Ayer understood it , on the grounds that any religious discourse was meaningless .
However , in `` Language , Truth and Logic '' A. J. Ayer distinguishes A. J. Ayer from both agnostics and atheists by saying that both these stances take the statement `` God exists '' as a meaningful hypothesis , which Ayer A. J. Ayer does not .
She died in 1985 and in 1989 A. J. Ayer remarried Dee Wells , who survived A. J. Ayer .
Ayer 's son Nick , however , said that A. J. Ayer had never mentioned this to A. J. Ayer though A. J. Ayer did find A. J. Ayer father 's words to be extraordinary , and said A. J. Ayer had long felt there was something possibly suspect about A. J. Ayer father 's version of A. J. Ayer near death experience .
In it , A. J. Ayer also proposed that the distinction between a conscious man and an unconscious machine resolves itself into a distinction between ` different types of perceptible behaviour ' , an argument which anticipates the Turing test published in 1950 to test a machine 's capability to demonstrate intelligence ( consciousness ) .
A group of eleven musicians , such as found in The Carnival of the Animals , is called either a `` hendectet '' or an `` undectet '' ( see Latin numerical prefixes ) .
Mozart 's Clarinet Quintet is similarly a piece written for an ensemble consisting of 2 violins , a viola , a cello and a clarinet , the last being the exceptional addition to a `` normal '' string quartet .
A pops orchestra is an orchestra that mainly performs light classical music ( often in abbreviated , simplified arrangements ) and orchestral arrangements and medleys of popular jazz , music theater , or pop music songs .
Tenacious D is a two-guitar band ; One Day as a Lion and The Dresden Dolls both feature a keyboardist and a drummer .
W.A.S.P. guitarist Doug Blair is also known for his work in the two-piece progressive rock band signal2noise , where he manages to be the lead guitarist and bassist at the same time , thanks to a special custom instrument he invented ( an electric guitar with five regular guitar strings paired with three bass guitar strings ) .
Local H , Blood Red Shoes , PS I Love You , The Redmond Barry 's and Warship are other prominent two-person experimental rock bands .
Some well-known power trios with the guitarist on lead vocals are The Jimi Hendrix Experience , Stevie Ray Vaughan and Double Trouble , Nirvana , the original line-up of Green Day , Violent Femmes , Gov ' t Mule , The Minutemen , Triumph , Shellac , Sublime , Blink-182 , Chevelle , Muse , The Jam , Short Stack , ZZ Top , ( ( Agnes Strange ) ) , and the original lineup of Wolfmother .
Some bands , such as The Beatles , have a lead guitarist , a rhythm guitarist and a bassist that all sing lead and backing vocals , that also play keyboards regularly , as well as a drummer .
Others , such as The Four Seasons , have a lead vocalist , a lead guitarist , a keyboard player , and a bassist , with the drummer not being a member of Musical ensemble .
and Avenged Sevenfold have a lead vocalist , a lead guitarist , a rhythm guitarist , and a bassist , with no drummer after their drummer The Rev died in late December 2009 .
or or or or or or or or or or or Five-piece bands have existed in rock music since early times .
Other times , the vocalist will bring another musical `` voice '' to the table , most commonly a harmonica or percussion ; Mick Jagger , for example , played harmonica and percussion instruments like maracas and tambourine .
More rarely , rock or pop groups will be accompanied in concerts by a full or partial symphony orchestra , where lush string-orchestra arrangements are used to flesh out the sound of slow ballads .
Rhys Chatham and Glenn Branca started doing performances in the late 70s with orchestras consisting of ten to hundred ( Branca ) and even four hundred guitars ( Chatham ) .
or or or The above line-up was used by Bon Jovi during the Lost Highway tour .
A group that plays popular music or military music is usually called a band ; a drum and bugle corps is a type of the latter .
The tribal or regional levies - irregular forces - had part-time soldiers provided by tribal or regional chieftains .
In April 1978 there was a coup , known as the Saur Revolution , orchestrated by the Soviets and members of the government loyal to the People 's Democratic Party of Afghanistan ( PDPA ) .
The Afghan military is being trained by the United States and other NATO member states to ultimately take the lead in military operations in Afghanistan so Military of Afghanistan can secure the country when the western nations withdraw Military of Afghanistan troops .
The AAF was very significant before and during the 1980s but by the time of the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 , the number of aircraft available was minimal .
All heavy weapons from Panjshir , Balkh , Nangarhar and other places were seized by the Afghan government .
The ANA , trained primarily by the United States Armed Forces , is presently organized into 31 Kandaks , or Battalions , 28 of which are considered combat ready .
The disciplines are not all `` races '' or timed-speed events , as several disciplines test a competitor 's various riding skills .
Motorcycle racing ( also known as Moto racing and Bike racing ) is a motorcycle sport involving racing motorcycles .
Speedway Speedway is a motorcycle sport in which the motorcycles have one gear and no brakes .
The person who completes the route the quickest sets the `` standard time '' and all other competitors must finish within a certain amount of time of the standard time to be counted as a finisher ( Motorcycle sport received penalty points for every minute after the quickest finisher ) .
This is combined with the penalty points accrued from the observed sections to arrive at a winner , who is not alway the quickest rider or the rider who lost the less marks on observation but the rider who balanced these competing demands the best .
In some cases , few riders actually complete the course and results are judged on the distance that Motorcycle sport manage to achieve .
Marina Tsvetaeva mother , Maria Alexandrovna Meyn , was Ivan 's second wife , was a concert pianist , highly literate , with German and Polish ancestry .
Marina Tsvetaeva two half-siblings , Valeria and Andrei , were the children of Ivan 's deceased first wife , Varvara Dmitrievna Ilovaiskaya , daughter of the historian Dmitry Ilovaisky .
Marina Tsvetaeva was 19 , he 18 : they fell in love and were married in 1912 , the same year as Marina Tsvetaeva father 's project , the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts , was ceremonially opened , an event attended by Tsar Nicholas II .
Between 1917 and 1922 Marina Tsvetaeva wrote the epic verse cycle Lebedinyi stan ( ' ` The Encampment of the Swans ' ' ) about the civil war , glorifying those who fought against the communists .
Starvation and worry were to erode Marina Tsvetaeva looks .
During these years , Tsvetaeva maintained a close and intense friendship with the actress Sofia Evgenievna Holliday , for whom Marina Tsvetaeva wrote a number of plays .
Marina Tsvetaeva received a small stipend from the Czechoslovak government , which gave financial support to artists and writers who had lived in Czechoslovakia .
In 1941 , Tsvetaeva and Marina Tsvetaeva son were evacuated to Yelabuga , while most families of the Union of Soviet writers were evacuated to Chistopol .
The poem is a prologue to three more verse-narratives written between 1920 and 1922 .
The collection Psyche ( Psikheya , 1923 ) contains one of Marina Tsvetaeva best-known cycles `` Insomnia '' ( Bessonnitsa ) and the poem The Swans ' Encampment ( Lebedinyi stan , Stikhi 1917-1921 , published in 1957 ) which celebrates the White Army .
In 1924 , Tsvetaeva wrote `` Poem of the End '' , which details a walk around Prague and across its bridges ; the walk is about the final walk Marina Tsvetaeva will take with Marina Tsvetaeva lover Konstantin Rodzevich .
Principal among these is the voice of the classically-oriented Marina Tsvetaeva heard in cycles `` The Sibyl , '' `` Phaedra , '' and `` Ariadne '' .
Several satirical poems , moreover , are among Marina Tsvetaeva best-known works : `` The Train of Life '' ( `` Poezd zhizni '' ) and `` The Floorcleaners ' Song '' ( `` Poloterskaya '' ) , both included in After Russia , and The Rat-catcher ( Krysolov , 1925 -- 1926 ) , a long , folkloric narrative .
Matilda 's mother was Beatrice , a daughter of Frederick II , Duke of Upper Lorraine , and of Matilda , daughter of Herman II of Swabia .
Whatever the case , Godfrey and his ally , Baldwin V of Flanders , had forced the emperor to come to terms of peace by mid-1056 and Godfrey was permitted to return to Italy to administer his stepdaughter 's estates .
The `` Qattro Castelli '' were four castles -- Montezane , Montelucio , Montevetro , and Bianell ( Bibianello ) -- perched by Matilda atop hills to guard the route up to Canossa .
Both Matilda 's mother and husband died in 1076 , leaving Matilda of Tuscany in sole control of Matilda of Tuscany great Italian patrimony as well as lands in Lorraine , while at the same time matters in the conflict between Pope Gregory VII and the German king Henry IV were at a crisis point .
Gregory VII died in 1085 , and Matilda 's forces , with those of Prince Jordan I of Capua ( Matilda of Tuscany off and on again enemy ) , took to the field in support of a new pope , Victor III .
Mesopotamia ( from the : `` land between rivers '' ; ( bilād al-rāfidayn ) ; ( Beth Nahrin ) : `` land of rivers '' ) is a name for the area of the Tigris -- Euphrates river system , corresponding to modern-day Iraq , the northeastern section of Syria and to a lesser extent southeastern Turkey and smaller parts of southwestern Iran .
The indigenous Sumerians and Akkadians ( including Assyrians and Babylonians ) dominated Mesopotamia from the beginning of written history ( c. 3100 BC ) to the fall of Babylon in 539 BC , when it was conquered by the Achaemenid Empire .
Mesopotamia became a battleground between the Romans and Parthians , with parts of Mesopotamia coming under ephemeral Roman control .
Upper Mesopotamia , also known as the Jezirah , is the area between the Euphrates and the Tigris from their sources down to Baghdad .
Mesopotamia encompasses the land between the Euphrates and Tigris rivers , both of which have their headwaters in the mountains of Armenia in modern-day Turkey .
The usefulness of irrigation depends upon the ability to mobilize sufficient labor for the construction and maintenance of canals , and this , from the earliest period , has assisted the development of urban settlements and centralized systems of political authority .
The region was one of the four riverine civilizations where writing was invented ( it being the first ) , along with the Nile valley in Egypt , the Indus Valley in the Indian subcontinent , and Yellow River valley in China ( although writing is also known to have arisen independently in Mesoamerica ) .
The influence of Sumerian on Akkadian ( and vice versa ) is evident in all areas , from lexical borrowing on a massive scale , to syntactic , morphological , and phonological convergence .
This has prompted scholars to refer to Sumerian and Akkadian in the third millennium as a sprachbund .
They measured the circumference of a circle as three times the diameter and the area as one-twelfth the square of the circumference , which would be correct if pi were fixed at 3 .
This was an important contribution to astronomy and the philosophy of science and some scholars have thus referred to this new approach as the first scientific revolution .
The most extensive Babylonian medical text , however , is the Diagnostic Handbook written by the ummânū , or chief scholar , Esagil-kin-apli of Borsippa , during the reign of the Babylonian king Adad-apla-iddina ( 1069-1046 BC ) .
Later during the Parthian or Sassanid periods , the Baghdad Battery , which may have been the world 's first battery , was created in Mesopotamia .
Thorkild Jacobsen , as well as many others , has suggested that early Mesopotamia society was ruled by a `` council of elders '' in which men and women were equally represented , but that over time , as the status of women fell , that of men increased .
In the early period down to Ur III temples owned up to one third of the available land , declining over time as royal and other private holdings increased in frequency .
Major cities , such as Ur and Uruk , took root on tributaries of the Euphrates , while others , notably Lagash , were built on branches of the Tigris .
King Sargon , for example , conquered all the cities of Sumer , some cities in Mari , and then went to war with northern Syria .
The most renowned of these was that of Hammurabi , as mentioned above , who was posthumously famous for his set of laws , the Code of Hammurabi ( created c. 1780 BC ) , which is one of the earliest sets of laws found and one of the best preserved examples of this type of document from Mesopotamia .
The art of Mesopotamia rivalled that of Ancient Egypt as the most grand , sophisticated and elaborate in western Eurasia from the 4th millennium BC until the Persian Achaemenid Empire conquered the region in the 6th century BC .
The Protoliterate period , dominated by Uruk , saw the production of sophisticated works like the Warka Vase and cylinder seals .
A little later there are a number of figures of large-eyed priests and worshippers , mostly in alabaster and up to a foot high , who attended temple cult images of the deity , but very few of these have survived .
The Assyrians developed a style of extremely large schemes of very finely detailed narrative low reliefs in stone for palaces , with scenes of war or hunting ; the British Museum has an outstanding collection .
They produced very little sculpture in the round , except for colossal guardian figures , often the human-headed lamassu , which are sculpted in high relief on two sides of a rectangular block , with the heads effectively in the round ( and also five legs , so that both views seem complete ) .
The study of ancient Mesopotamia architecture is based on available archaeological evidence , pictorial representation of buildings , and texts on building practices .
Mesopotamia is a battleground between the Romans and Parthians .
Mesopotamia is the area between the Euphrates and the Tigris from their sources .
André Weil made substantial contributions in many areas , the most important being André Weil discovery of profound connections between algebraic geometry and number theory .
This began in André Weil doctoral work leading to the Mordell -- Weil theorem ( 1928 , and shortly applied in Siegel 's theorem on integral points ) .
The so-called André Weil conjectures were hugely influential from around 1950 ; these statements were later proved by Bernard Dwork , Alexander Grothendieck , Michael Artin , and finally by Pierre Deligne , who completed the most difficult step in 1973 .
André Weil discovered that the so-called Weil representation , previously introduced in quantum mechanics by Irving Segal and Shale , gave a contemporary framework for understanding the classical theory of quadratic forms .
Miranda Richardson ( born 3 March 1958 ) is an English stage , film and television actress .
The name Mecklenburg derives from a castle named `` Mikilenburg '' ( Old Saxon : `` big castle '' , thus the Grecised name variant Megalopolis used in Medieval Latin sources ) , located between the cities of Schwerin and Wismar .
Mecklenburg represents what early peoples would have worn , i.e. a steers 's head as a hat , with the hide hanging down the back to protect the neck from the sun , and overall as a way to instill fear in the enemy .
Since the 12th century , the territory has remained stable and relatively independent of Mecklenburg neighbours ; one of the few German territories for which this is true .
Practices such as having to ask for permission from the Grand Duke to get married , or having to apply for permission to emigrate , would linger late into the history of Mecklenburg ( i.e. 1918 ) , long after such practices had been abandoned in other German areas .
` Berühmte Fahnen ' shows furthermore a standard for grand duchess Alexandra of Mecklenburg-Schwerin , princess of Hannover ( 1882 -- 1963 ) , showing her shield and that of Mecklenburg joined by the order of the Wendic Crown in a white oval .
The Achaeans (Homer) ( , Akhaioí ) constitute one of the collective names for the Greeks in Homer 's Iliad ( used 598 times ) and Odyssey .
According to Pausanias , writing in the 2nd century AD , the term ` Achaean ' was originally given to those Greeks inhabiting the Argolis and Laconia .
Another important example is the Tawagalawa Letter written by an unnamed Hittite king ( most probably Hattusili III ) of the empire period ( 14th-13th century BC ) to the king of Achaeans (Homer) , treating him as an equal and suggesting that Miletus ( Millawanda ) was under his control .
Ahhiya ( wa ) has been identified with the Achaeans (Homer) of the Trojan War and the city of Wilusa with the legendary city of Troy ( note the similarity with early Greek Wilion , later Ilion , the name of the acropolis of Troy ) .
Included amongst the ethnic names of the repulsed invaders is the Ekwesh or Eqwesh , whom some have seen as Achaeans (Homer) , although Egyptian texts specifically mention these Ekwesh to be circumcised ( which does not seem to have been a general practice in the Aegaean at the time ) .
Sons of Xuthos and Kreousa , daughter of Erechthea , were Ion and Achaeus .
Saint Yared ( Ge'ez : ቅዱስ ያሬድ ) ( April 25 , 505 -- May 20 , 571 ) was a semi-legendary Ethiopian musician credited with inventing the sacred music tradition of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church and Ethiopia 's system of musical notation .
Scholar and music theorist Isidore of Seville , writing in the early 7th century , considered that `` unless sounds are held by the memory of man , Musical notation perish , because Musical notation can not be written down '' .
The vertical positions of each mark on the staff indicated which pitch or pitches Musical notation represented ( pitches were derived from a musical mode .
This was a flaw seen by German music theorist Franco of Cologne and summarised as part of his treatise Ars cantus mensurabilis ( the art of measured chant , or Mensural notation ) .
A staff ( or stave , in British English ) of Musical notation generally begins with a clef , which indicates the position of one particular note on the staff .
Re , Ga , Dha and Ni all have altered partners that are a half-step lower ( Komal - `` flat '' ) ( thus , komal Re is a half-step higher than Sa ) .
The tablature of the guqin is unique and complex ; the older form is composed of written words describing how to play a melody step-by-step using the plain language of the time , i.e.
Jeongganbo ( or Chong Gan Bo , 정간보 , 井間譜 ) is traditional Korean musical notation system introduced by Sejong the Great and known as the first musical notation system that is able to represent durations of notes in the Eastern .
In Japanese shakuhachi music , for example , glissandos and timbres are often more significant than distinct pitches , whereas taiko notation focuses on discrete strokes .
The numbered notation , or numerical notation , is an example , so are letter notation and Solfège if written in musical sequence .
In these countries ' languages , the note called simply B in English ( i.e. , B ) is called H , and the note B is named B. ( The C chromatic scale is thus : C C D D E F F G G A B H C ) .
The note a semitone above C is either `` Cis '' or `` Des '' , and A is `` As '' .
Few seem to have remarked on the fact that tablature combines in one notation system both the physical and technical requirements of play ( the lines and symbols on them and in relation to each other representing the actual performance actions ) with the unfolding of the music Musical notation ( the lines of tablature taken horizontally represent the actual temporal unfolding of the music ) .
Websites like Tablature Klavar notation ( or `` klavarskribo '' ) is a chromatic system of notation geared mainly towards keyboard instruments , which transposes the usual `` graph '' of music .
The `` staff '' is most widely referred to as `` piano roll '' , created by extending the black and white piano keys .
The best known application of the `` piano roll staff '' is in digital music producing computer software such as Cubase , GarageBand , etc. Piano sheet music ( traditional music notes on the piano roll staff ) have also been printed and published , for the claimed benefit of visual matching of music notes and the piano keys to play .
The term ` graphic notation ' refers to the contemporary use of non-traditional symbols and text to convey information about the performance of a piece of music .
Meir Kahane , also known as Meir Kahane , was an American-Israeli rabbi and ultra-nationalist writer and political figure , whose work became either the direct or indirect foundation of most modern Jewish militant and extreme right-wing political groups .
Meir Kahane later became known in the United States and Israel for political and religious views that included proposing emergency Jewish mass-immigration to Israel due to the imminent threat of a `` second Holocaust '' in the United States , advocating that Israel 's democracy be replaced by a state modeled on Jewish law , and promoting the idea of a Greater Israel in which Israel would annex the West Bank and Gaza Strip .
Meir Kahane founded both the militant group Jewish Defense League ( JDL ) in the USA and an Israeli political party Kach ( `` This is the Way '' ) .
Two examples of which , are the 1993 World Trade Center bombing case where the defense tried unsuccessfully to argue that informants 'Em ad Saleem ' , and ` Ali Mohamed ' had entrapped the conspirators , as had been done by the FBI to Kahane None In another case brought up at the Israel i Supreme Court , the banning of Kahane 's political party first None and then upheld in appeal , within the framework of the Israeli Democracy , can be used to ban other parties deemed ` racist ' or which espouse racist views .
In 1947 Meir Kahane was arrested for throwing eggs and tomatoes at Bevin , as the latter disembarked at Pier 84 on a visit to New York .
At the Jewish Center , Meir Kahane influenced many of the synagogue 's youngsters to adopt a more observant lifestyle and this angered their parents .
During this period Mr. Kahane attempted to rekindle Meir Kahane Brooklyn College friendship with Joseph Churba which resulted in them co-authoring the text , ` The Jewish Stake in Vietnam ' together , which was an attempt to convince American Jews of the ` evil of Communism ` Kahane and Churba wrote `` All Americans have a stake in this grim war against Communism ... it is vital that Jews realize the threat to their very survival should Communism succeed from the introduction .
Churba had a major falling out with Kahane over the use of para-militarism , and they permanently parted ways , Meir Kahane went on to pursue Meir Kahane own career , joining the US Air Force , writing many books on the Middle East , later becoming one of Ronald Reagan 's consultants .
Kahane chose a violent path , even attempting to acquire and grow biological weapons to use on a Soviet military installation ( wrote a book with that title , a few years after Meir Kahane first article using that phrase appeared ) , also conceiving the Jewish Star and fist insignia , a similar symbol to the Black Panther party , though Kahane Meir Kahane was against the Black Panther party due to anti-Jewish riots they has supported in Massachusetts as Meir Kahane saw it , and leftist leanings as Meir Kahane saw it .
A number of the JDL members and leaders , including Meir Kahane , were convicted in relation to acts of domestic terrorism in the United States .
Meir Kahane speeches , boycotted by Knesset members , were made to an empty parliament , except for the duty chairman and the transcriptionist .
Meir Kahane also believed that a Jewish democracy with non-Jewish citizens was self-contradictory because the non-Jewish citizens might someday become a numerical majority and vote to make the state non-Jewish : `` The question is as follows : if the Arabs settle among us and make enough children to become a majority , will Israel continue to be a Jewish state ?
Kahane proposed a $ 40,000 compensation plan for Arabs who would leave voluntarily , forcible expulsion `` for those who do n't want to leave , '' and encouraged retaliatory violence against Arabs who attacked Jews : `` Meir Kahane approve of anybody who commits such acts of violence .
When critics suggested this would mean perpetual war between Jews and Arabs , Kahane answered , `` There will be a perpetual war .
Following Kahane 's death , no charismatic leader emerged to replace Meir Kahane in the movement , although the idea of transferring populations , mainly attributed to Kahane , was subsequently incorporated into the political platform of various political parties in Israel , such as Moledet ( applying to Arab non-citizen residents of Judea and Samaria ) and Yisrael Beiteinu ( in the form of population exchange ) .
In the 2003 Knesset elections Herut , which split off from the National Union list , ran with Michael Kleiner and former Kach activist Baruch Marzel taking the top two spots on the list .
Marietta Alboni became a pupil of Antonio Bagioli of Cesena , Emilia -- Romagna , and later of the composer Gioachino Rossini , when he was ` perpetual honorary adviser ' in ( and then the principal of ) the Liceo Musicale , now Conservatorio Giovanni Battista Martini , in Bologna .
A year later , in 1868 , Alboni would take part in the funeral of Marietta Alboni beloved master and friend , Rossini , in the Église de la Sainte-Trinité .
He had said that he had composed it , and especially the new section `` O salutaris '' , just having Marietta Alboni voice in mind .
When , in 1887 , the French and Italian Governments agreed upon moving the mortal remains of Rossini into the Basilica di Santa Croce , in Florence , Alboni , then a sixty-one-year-old lady living in seclusion , wrote to the Italian Foreign Minister , Di Robilant , proposing that the Petite Messe Solennelle , `` the last musical composition by Rossini '' , be performed in Santa Croce the day of the funeral , and `` demanding the honour , as an Italian and a pupil of the immortal Maestro , '' of singing it Marietta Alboni in Marietta Alboni `` dear and beloved homeland '' .
The Paris correspondent of the Rome newspaper ` Il Fanfulla ' wrote on the occasion : `` photographers snapped in the same shot the greatest performer of Cenerentola and Semiramide , and what is left of the man who wrote these masterpieces '' .
The freshwater Amazonian manatee ( T. inunguis ) inhabits the Amazon River and Manatee tributaries , and never ventures into salt water .
Manatee emit a wide range of sounds used in communication , especially between cows and Manatee calves .
The MV Freedom Star and MV Liberty Star , ships used by NASA to tow space shuttle solid rocket boosters back to Kennedy Space Center , are propelled only by water jets to protect the endangered manatee population that inhabits regions of the Banana River where the ships are based .
From manatee hides , Native Americans made war shields , canoes , and shoes , though manatees were predominantly hunted for Manatee abundant meat .
The relationships between the three extant divisions of mammals ( monotremes , Marsupial , and placental mammals ) was long a matter of debate among taxonomists .
Most morphological evidence comparing traits such as number and arrangement of teeth and structure of the reproductive and waste elimination systems favors a closer evolutionary relationship between Marsupial and placental mammals than either with the monotremes , as does most genetic and molecular evidence .
In the absence of soft tissues , such as the pouch and reproductive system , fossil marsupials can be distinguished from placentals by the form of their teeth ; primitive marsupials possess four pairs of molar teeth in each jaw , whereas placental mammals never have more than three pairs .
Metatherians spread westward into modern North America ( still attached to Eurasia ) and then to South America , which was connected to North America until around 65 mya .
While placental predators were absent , the metatherians did have to contend with avian ( terror bird ) and terrestrial crocodilian competition .
North and South America were disconnected until about three million years ago , when the Isthmus of Panama formed .
This indicates that Australidelphia arose in South America , and reached Australia after Microbiotheria split off .
Marsupial must develop grasping forepaws during their early youth , making the transition from these limbs into hooves , wings , or flippers , as some groups of placental mammals have done , far more difficult .
Marsupial give birth at a very early stage of development ( about four to five weeks ) ; after birth , newborn marsupials crawl up the bodies of their mothers and attach themselves to a nipple , which is located on the underside of the mother either inside a pouch called the marsupium or open to the environment .
Marsupial have a front pouch containing multiple nipples for protection and sustenance of the young .
An early-19th-century factory building boom transformed Manchester from a township into a major mill town and borough that was granted city status in 1853 .
The name Manchester originates from the Ancient Roman name Mamucium , the name of the Roman fort and settlement , generally thought to be a Latinisation of an original Celtic name ( possibly meaning `` breast-like hill '' from mamm - = `` breast '' ) , plus Old English ceaster = `` town '' , which is derived from Latin castra = `` camp '' .
In Australia , New Zealand and South Africa , Manchester is still used for household linen : sheets , pillow cases , towels , etc.
Trade , and feeding the growing population , required a large transport and distribution infrastructure : the canal system was extended , and Manchester became one end of the world 's first intercity passenger railway -- the Liverpool and Manchester Railway .
A centre of capitalism , Manchester was once the scene of bread and labour riots , as well as calls for greater political recognition by Manchester working and non-titled classes .
Historian Simon Schama noted that `` Manchester was the very best and the very worst taken to terrifying extremes , a new kind of city in the world ; the chimneys of industrial suburbs greeting you with columns of smoke '' .
Manchester lost 150,000 jobs in manufacturing between 1961 and 1983 .
Spurred by the investment after the 1996 bomb , and aided by the XVII Commonwealth Games , Manchester city centre has undergone extensive regeneration .
A stroke of a Norman baron 's pen is said to have divorced Manchester and Salford , though it was not Salford that became separated from Manchester , it was Manchester , with Manchester humbler line of lords , that was separated from Salford .
In 1931 the Cheshire civil parishes of Baguley , Northenden and Northen Etchells from the south of the River Mersey were added .
The `` Manchester City Zone '' , `` Manchester post town '' and the `` Manchester Congestion Charge '' are all examples of this .
Manchester however has a relatively high humidity level and this , along with the abundant supply of soft water , was one of the factors that led to the localisation of the textile industry in the area .
Manchester commercial centre is in Manchester city centre , adjacent to Piccadilly , focused on Mosley Street , Deansgate , King Street and Piccadilly .
Just outside the immediate city centre is a large number of former cotton mills , some of which have been left virtually untouched since their closure while many have been redeveloped into apartment buildings and office space .
A larger-than-life statue of Abraham Lincoln by George Gray Barnard in the eponymous Lincoln Square ( having stood for many years in Platt Fields ) was presented to the city by Mr. and Mrs. Charles Phelps Taft of Cincinnati , Ohio , to mark the part that Lancashire played in the cotton famine and American Civil War of 1861 -- 1865 .
The bus system was then taken over by GM Buses which after privatisation was split into GM Buses North and GM Buses South and at a later date these were taken over by First Greater Manchester and Stagecoach Manchester respectively .
The Museum of Science and Industry , housed in the former Liverpool Road railway station , has a large collection of steam locomotives , industrial machinery and aircraft .
The Manchester Museum opened to the public in the 1880s , has notable Egyptology and natural history collections .
The works of Stretford-born painter , known for his `` matchstick '' paintings of industrial Manchester and Salford , can be seen in both Manchester and Whitworth Manchester galleries , and at the Lowry art centre in Salford Quays ( in the neighbouring borough of Salford ) devotes a large permanent exhibition to his works .
These included Elizabeth Gaskell 's novel Mary Barton : A Tale of Manchester Life ( 1848 ) , and The Condition of the Working Class in England in 1844 , written by Friedrich Engels while living and working in Manchester .
The Madchester scene of the 1980s , from which groups including The Stone Roses , the Happy Mondays , Inspiral Carpets , 808 State , James and The Charlatans emerged , was based on clubs such as The Haçienda .
Together they have a combined population of 73 160 students in higher education , though almost 6 000 of these were based at Manchester Metropolitan University 's campuses at Crewe and Alsager in Cheshire .
Programmes including Mastermind , and Real Story , were made at New Broadcasting House .
The Cutting Manchester series set in the city 's Northern Quarter and The Street were set in Manchester as was Life on Mars .
These stations and pirate radio played a significant role in Manchester house music culture , the Madchester scene , which was based in clubs like The Haçienda .
At Manchester height , journalists were employed , though in the 1980s office closures began and today the `` second Fleet Street '' is no more .
Another attempt was made with the North West Enquirer , which hoped to provide a true `` regional '' newspaper for the North West , much in the same vein as the Yorkshire Post does for Yorkshire or The Northern Echo does for the North East ; it folded in October 2006 .
The expansion of international trade links during the Industrial Revolution led to the introduction of the first consuls in the 1820s and since then over 800 , from all parts of the world , have been based in Manchester .
Manchester has remained ( in consular terms at least ) Manchester of the UK for two centuries , and hosts consular services for most of the north of England .
Manchester is the first and greatest industrial city in the world .
Manchester is the very best and the very worst taken to terrifying extremes , a new kind of city in the world ; the chimneys of industrial suburbs greeting you with columns of smoke .
Margaret Murray ( 13 July 1863 -- 13 November 1963 ) was a prominent British Egyptologist and anthropologist .
It is regarded as the first interdisciplinary study of mummies and probably kick-started future scientific unwrappings , such as those of Keeper Professor Rosalie David completed in the 1970s .
Ten years later and having reached 100 years of age , Margaret Murray published Margaret Murray final work , an autobiography entitled Margaret Murray First Hundred Years ( 1963 ) .
Margaret Murray maintained that pagan beliefs and religion dating from the neolithic through the medieval period , secretly practiced human sacrifice until exposed by the witchhunt starting around 1450 .
Murray also discussed the murder of the Archbishop of Canterbury , Thomas Becket , claiming to show that he too was a pagan by saying that his death `` presents many features which are explicable only by the theory that he also was the substitute for a Divine King '' ( Murray 171 ) Murray now became more and more emotional in Margaret Murray defence of Margaret Murray ideas , claiming that anyone who opposed Margaret Murray did so out of religious prejudice .
However critics of Murray are themselves criticised for misrepresenting Margaret Murray work ; Simpson and Hutton are specifically singled out for the various ways they misrepresent Murray , for instance setting up `` straw men '' arguments that are easier to counter .
In 1962 , Canadian historian Elliot Rose published A Razor for a Goat : A Discussion of Certain Problems in Witchcraft and Diabolism , in which he provided one of the first popular history books to openly criticise Murray 's interpretation .
Similar criticism of Margaret Murray came from the historian Ronald Hutton , in both his 1991 book on ancient paganism , The Pagan Religions of the Ancient British Isles : Their Nature and Legacy and in his 1999 study of Wiccan history , The Triumph of the Moon : A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft .
The phrase `` the Old Religion , '' used by Wiccans and Neopagans to describe an ancestral pagan religion , derives from Murrayite theory .
Margaret Murray was also a believer and a practitioner of magic , performing curses against those whom Margaret Murray felt deserved it : as Ronald Hutton noted , `` Once Margaret Murray carried out a ritual to blast a fellow academic whose promotion Margaret Murray believed to have been undeserved , by mixing up ingredients in a frying pan in the presence of two colleagues .
Atle Selberg ( 14 June 1917 -- 6 August 2007 ) was a Norwegian mathematician known for Atle Selberg work in analytic number theory , and in the theory of automorphic forms , in particular bringing them into relation with spectral theory .
-- > While Atle Selberg was still at school Atle Selberg was influenced by the work of Srinivasa Ramanujan and Atle Selberg found the exact analytical formula for the partition function as suggested by the works of Ramanujan ; however , this result was first published by Hans Rademacher .
In its simplest form , this establishes a duality between the lengths of closed geodesics on a compact Riemann surface and the eigenvalues of the Laplacian , which is analogous to the duality between the prime numbers and the zeros of the zeta function .
Aoraki / Mount Cook is 7 km from the end of the Tasman Glacier and 12 km south of Aoraki / Mount Cook 's summit .
Following the settlement between Ngāi Tahu and the Crown in 1998 , the name of the mountain was officially changed from Mount Cook to Aoraki / Mount Cook to incorporate Aoraki / Mount Cook historic Māori name , Aoraki .
The Southern Alps on the South Island were formed by tectonic uplifting and pressure as the Pacific and Indo-Australian Plates collided along the island 's western coast .
The height of Aoraki / Mount Cook was established in 1881 by G. J. Roberts ( from the west side ) and in 1889 by T. N. Brodrick ( from the Canterbury side ) .
In February 1948 with Ruth Adams , Harry Ayres and Mick Sullivan , Hillary made the first ascent of the South Ridge to the Low Peak In order to celebrate the life of Hillary the South Ridge was renamed as Hillary Ridge in August 2011 .
MNG animations may be included in HTML pages using the or tag .
Mississippi John Hurt spent much of Mississippi John Hurt youth playing old time music for friends and dances , earning a living as a farmhand into the 1920s .
American singer-songwriter Tom Paxton , who met Hurt and played on the same bill as Mississippi John Hurt at the Gaslight in Greenwich Village around 1963 , wrote and recorded a song about him in 1977 entitled `` Did You Hear John Hurt ?
Between 1782 -- 1850 , Moravia ( also thus known as Moravia-Silesia ) also included a small portion of the former province of Silesia -- the Austrian Silesia ( when Frederick the Great annexed most of ancient Silesia ( the land of upper and middle Oder river ) to Prussia , Silesia 's southernmost part remained with the Habsburgs ) .
In 1055 , Bretislaus decreed that the Bohemia and Moravia would be inherited together by primogeniture , although he also provided that his younger sons should govern parts ( quarters ) of Moravia as vassals to his oldest son .
Moravia Moravia remained within the Luxembourg dynasty of Holy Roman kings and emperors ( except during the Hussite wars ) , until inherited by Albert II of Habsburg in 1437 .
The rule of young Ladislaus the Posthumous subsisted only less than five years and subsequently ( 1458 ) the Hussite George of Poděbrady was elected as the king .
After the fall of the Soviet Union , the Czechoslovak Federal Assembly condemned the cancellation of Moravian-Silesian land and expressed `` firm conviction that this injustice will be corrected '' in 1990 , however after the breakup of Czechoslovakia into Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1993 , Moravian land remained in the Czech territory , and the latest administrative division of Czech Republic ( which was introduced in 2000 ) is nearly identical with the administrative division of 1949 .
Moravia within Czechoslovakia between 1918 -- 1928 První Československá republika.SVG Moravia as part of the Moravia-Silesia within Czechoslovakia between 1928 -- 1938 Czechoslovakia IV.png Moravia-Silesia within Czechoslovakia between 1928 -- 1938 CZ-cleneni-Morava-wl.png Moravia within the Czech Republic Moravska narodnost 1991.PNG Moravian nationality , as declared by people in the 1991 census An area in South Moravia , around Hodonín and Břeclav , is part of the Viennese Basin .
Murray Rothbard ( March 2 , 1926 -- January 7 , 1995 ) was an American economist of the Austrian School , as well as Murray Rothbard , philosopher and political theorist .
Murray Rothbard wrote that the state is `` the organization of robbery systematized and writ large '' and the locus of unscrupulous individuals Rothbard asserted that all services provided by what Murray Rothbard called the `` monopoly system of the corporate state '' could be provided more efficiently by the private sector .
Murray Rothbard father , a chemist , `` emigrated to the United States from a Polish shtetl in 1910 , impoverished and knowing not a word of English '' , while Murray Rothbard mother came from Russia .
The Volker Fund paid Rothbard to write a textbook to explain Human Action in a fashion suitable for college students ; a sample chapter Murray Rothbard wrote on money and credit won Mises 's approval .
Murray Rothbard founded the Center for Libertarian Studies in 1976 and the Journal of Libertarian Studies in 1977 .
The New York Times obituary called Murray Rothbard `` an economist and social philosopher who fiercely defended individual freedom against government intervention '' .
Rothbard was equally condemning of relationships Murray Rothbard perceived between big business and big government .
Murray Rothbard also made a distinction between `` narrow '' and `` broad '' historical revisionist .
Murray Rothbard wrote that Barnes was a `` broad Revisionist '' who `` understood that the main problem has been war and peace , and that Murray Rothbard main concern was not to weep over Germany , but to oppose a world-wide escalation of war '' .
Murray Rothbard suggested parents have the right to put a child out for adoption or even sell the rights to the child in a voluntary contract , which Murray Rothbard feels is more humane than artificial governmental restriction of the number of children available to willing and often superior parents .
According to Rothbard biographer Justin Raimondo , Rothbard considered Malcolm X to be a `` great black leader '' and Martin Luther King to be favored by whites because Murray Rothbard `` was the major restraining force on the developing Negro revolution '' .
The title essay of Murray Rothbard 1974 book Egalitarianism as a Revolt Against Nature and Other Essays held , `` Equality is not in the natural order of things , and the crusade to make everyone equal in every respect ( except before the law ) is certain to have disastrous consequences '' .
Murray Rothbard was one of the founders of the Cato Institute , and `` came up with the idea of naming this libertarian think tank after Cato 's Letters , a powerful series of British newspaper essays by John Trenchard and Thomas Gordon which played a decisive influence upon America 's Founding Fathers in fomenting the Revolution '' .
In discussing what Murray Rothbard called the `` hysteria '' against Duke , whom Murray Rothbard noted was newly converted to Christianity , Rothbard described `` right wing populism '' as opposition to a `` statist world dominated by a ruling elite , consisting of a coalition of Big Government , Big Business , and various influential special interest groups '' .
Rothbard then shifted Murray Rothbard interest and support to Ross Perot , who Rothbard wrote had `` brought an excitement , a verve , a sense of dynamics and of open possibilities to what had threatened to be a dreary race '' .
Murray Rothbard generally praised films that represented `` Old Culture '' values which Murray Rothbard felt were exemplified by the James Bond franchise : `` marvelous plot , exciting action , hero vs. villains , spy plots , crisp dialogue and the frank enjoyment of bourgeois luxury and fascinating technological gadgets '' .
Mel Brooks ( born Melvin James Kaminsky ; June 28 , 1926 ) is an American film director , screenwriter , composer , lyricist , comedian , actor and producer .
It received some of the best reviews of Brooks 's career and even critic Pauline Kael liked the film , saying that `` Brooks makes a leap up as a director because , although the comedy does n't build , Mel Brooks carries the story through ... Brooks even has a satisfying windup , which makes this just about the only comedy of recent years that does n't collapse '' .
Silent Movie was written by Brooks and Ron Clark , starring Brooks in Mel Brooks first leading role , Dom DeLuise , Marty Feldman , Sid Caesar , Bernadette Peters and , in cameo roles playing themselves : Paul Newman , Burt Reynolds , James Caan , Liza Minnelli , Anne Bancroft and ironically , Marcel Marceau , who uttered the film 's only word of audible dialogue : `` Non !
In 1981 Brooks joked that the only genres that Mel Brooks had not spoofed were historical epics and Biblical spectacles .
Critic Pauline Kael , who for years had been critical of Mel Brooks , said `` Either you get stuck thinking about the bad taste or you let yourself laugh at the obscenity in the humor as you do Bunuel 's perverse dirty jokes '' .
As part of Mel Brooks soundtrack , Mel Brooks , then aged 55 , recorded a rap entitled `` It 's Good to Be the King '' , a parody of Louis XVI and the French Revolution co-written by Pete Wingfield .
Life Stinks was a financial and critical failure , but is notable as being the only film that Mel Brooks directed that is neither a parody nor Mel Brooks .
Such success translated to a big-screen version of the Broadway adaptation/remake with actors Matthew Broderick and Nathan Lane reprising their stage roles , in addition to new cast members Uma Thurman and Will Ferrell in 2005 .
The world premiere was performed at Seattle 's most historic theater ( originally built as a movie palace ) , The Paramount Theater , between August 7 , 2007 , and September 1 , 2007 after which it opened on Broadway at the former Foxwoods Theater ( then the Hilton Theater ) , New York , on October 11 , 2007 .
Mel Brooks is a satire on the Western film genre and references older films such as Destry Rides Again , High Noon , Once Upon a Time in the West and The Treasure of the Sierra Madre as well as a surreal scene towards the end of the film referencing the extravagant musicals of Busby Berkeley .
Mehmet Ali Ağca became a smuggler between Turkey and Bulgaria .
Mehmet Ali Ağca claims to have received two months of training in weaponry and terrorist tactics in Syria as a member of the left-wing Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine paid for by the Communist Bulgarian government , although this has been questioned .
According to investigative journalist Lucy Komisar , Mehmet Ali Ağca had worked with Abdullah Çatlı in the 1979 assassination , who `` then reportedly helped organize Ağca 's escape from an Istanbul military prison , and some have suggested Çatlı was even involved in the Pope 's assassination attempt '' .
Mehmet Ali Ağca is a smuggler between Turkey and Bulgaria .
The OED defines a mummy as `` the body of a human being or animal enbalmed ( according to the ancient Egyptian or some analogous method ) as a preparation for burial '' , citing sources from 1615 onwards , later than the first uses of other senses that include ground up mummy used as `` a medicinal preparation '' , which dates to c. 1400 .
However sense 3c : `` A human or animal body desiccated by exposure to sun or air .
According to Herodotus the brain was removed using an iron hook inserted through the nostrils and the brain cavity washed with drugs .
In 2008 , the latest generation CT scanners ( 64 - and 256-slice Philips machines at the University of Chicago ) were used to study Meresamun , a temple singer and priestess at the Temple of Amun whose mummy now resides at the Oriental Institute of Chicago .
The prepared Chinchorro mummies , are the oldest prepared mummified bodies ever found , ranging from about 5000 -- 3000 BC , and apparently come from a society where all human burials were prepared for mummification .
In 1995 , the frozen body , not desiccated and so not strictly Mummy , of a 11 - to 14-year-old Inca girl who had died some time between 1440 and 1450 was discovered on Mount Ampato in southern Peru .
The work of embalming was reserved for a special class , with women for female corpses , and men for male .
More than a thousand Iron Age corpses , so called bog bodies , have been found in bogs in northern Europe , such as the Yde Girl and the Lindow Man .
Natural mummification of other animal species also occurs ; this is most common in species from shallow saline water environments , especially those with a body structure which is particularly favourable to this process , such as seahorses and starfish .
Another Siberian mummy , a man nicknamed `` Conan , '' was discovered with tattoos of two monsters resembling griffins decorating his chest and three partially obliterated images which seem to represent two deer and a mountain goat on his left arm .
In the winter of 1993 , miners near the city of Zanjan , came across a body with long hair , a beard and some artifacts .
After archeological studies which included C14 dating of different samples of bones and textiles , the Salt Man was dated to about 1,700 years ago .
By testing a sample of hair , the blood group B + was determined.Three bodies are dated to the Parthian ( 247 BC-224 AD ) and Sassanid ( 224-651 AD ) eras , and the remainder to the Achaemenid Dynasty ( 550-330 BC ) .
The `` Greenland Mummies '' consisted of a six-month old baby , a four year old boy , and six women of various ages , who died around 500 years ago .
1475 and whose body was retrieved relatively incorrupt in the 1970s , was achieved by the sophisticated practices of meditation , coupled with prolonged starvation and slow self-suffocation using a special belt that connected the neck with his knees in a lotus position .
Bodies purported to be those of self-mummified monks are exhibited in several Japanese shrines , and Mummy has been claimed that the monks , prior to their death , stuck to a sparse diet made up of salt , nuts , seeds , roots , pine bark , and urushi tea .
Mummy are accidental modern mummies and were literally `` dug up '' between the years 1896 and 1958 when a local law required relatives of the deceased to pay a kind of grave tax .
When actual mummies became unavailable , the sun-desiccated corpses of criminals , slaves and suicidal people were substituted by mendacious merchants .
During the 19th century , following the discovery of the first tombs and artifacts in Egypt , Egyptology was a huge fad in Europe , especially in Victorian England .
Even after that the world saw two more Mummy movies - Mummy Returns 2001 and .
As of 2008 Melilla had a population of 73,460 made up of Christians , Muslims ( chiefly Riffians ) , and a small number of Jews .
Melilla is Nador and the port of Melilla and Nador are both within the Bou Areg Lagoon Melilla and Ceuta are the only two European-Union territories located in mainland Africa .
Melilla Capilla de Santiago or James 's Chapel , by the city walls , is the only genuine Gothic architecture in Africa .
The academic consensus supports that the word is derived from the Greek μακαρία ( makaria ) , a kind of barley broth which was served to commemorate the dead , which in turn comes from μάκαρες ( makares ) , `` blessed dead '' , and that from μακάριος ( makarios ) , collateral of μάκαρ ( makar ) , meaning `` blessed , happy '' .
In areas with large Chinese populations open to Western cultural influence , such as Hong Kong , Macao , Malaysia and Singapore , the local Chinese have adopted Macaroni as an ingredient for Chinese-style Western cuisine .
So important was the war to Aeschylus and the Greeks that , upon Aeschylus death , around 456 BC , Aeschylus epitaph commemorated Aeschylus participation in the Greek victory at Marathon rather than Aeschylus success as a playwright .
In 490 BC , Aeschylus and Aeschylus brother Cynegeirus fought to defend Athens against Darius I 's invading Persian army at the Battle of Marathon .
In 480 , Aeschylus was called into military service again , this time against Xerxes I 's invading forces at the Battle of Salamis , and perhaps , too , at the Battle of Plataea in 479 .
This compares favorably with Sophocles ' reported eighteen victories ( with a substantially larger catalogue , at an estimated 120 plays ) , and dwarfs the five victories of Euripides , who is thought to have written roughly 90 plays .
Based on the evidence provided by a catalogue of Aeschylean play titles , scholia , and play fragments recorded by later authors , it is assumed that three other of Aeschylus extant plays were components of connected trilogies : Seven against Thebes being the final play in an Oedipus trilogy , and The Suppliants and Prometheus Bound each being the first play in a Danaid trilogy and Prometheus trilogy , respectively ( see below ) .
One , collectively called the Achilleis , comprised the titles Myrmidons , Nereids and Phrygians ( alternately , The Ransoming of Hector ) .
Clytemnestra 's account of a nightmare in which she gives birth to a snake is recounted by the chorus ; and this leads her to order Electra , her daughter , to pour libations on Agamemnon 's tomb ( with the assistance of libation bearers ) in hope of making amends .
The god Hephaestus , the Titan Oceanus , and the chorus of Oceanids all express sympathy for Prometheus ' plight .
This play was based on books 18 , 19 , and 22 of the Iliad , follows the Daughters of Nereus , the sea god , lament Patroclus ' death .
The children of Niobe , the heroine , have been slain by Apollo and Artemis because Niobe had gloated that she had more children than their mother , Leto .
1982 ) that the influence was so great as to merit a direct character by character comparison between Wagner 's Ring and Aeschylus Oresteia .
Sir J. T. Sheppard argues in the second half of Aeschylus Aeschylus and Sophocles : Their Work and Influence that Aeschylus , along with Sophocles , have played a major part in the formation of dramatic literature from the Renaissance to the present , specifically in French and Elizabethan drama .
Acknowledging the audience 's emotions , Kennedy referred to Aeschylus own grief at the murder of Aeschylus brother , President John F. Kennedy and , quoting a passage from the play Agamemnon , said : `` Aeschylus favorite poet was Aeschylus .
This process of translation of codons into amino acids requires two other types of RNA : Transfer RNA ( tRNA ) , that mediates recognition of the codon and provides the corresponding amino acid , and ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) , that is the central component of the ribosome 's protein-manufacturing machinery .
The short-lived , unprocessed or partially processed product is termed precursor mRNA , or pre-mRNA ; once completely processed , Messenger RNA is termed mature mRNA .
Splicing is the process by which pre-mRNA is modified to remove certain stretches of non-coding sequences called introns ; the stretches that remain include protein-coding sequences and are called exons .
The primary RNA transcript of a gene is cleaved at the poly-A addition site , and 100-200 A 's are added to the 3 ' end of the RNA .
Another difference between eukaryotes and prokaryotes is mRNA transport .
Coding regions are composed of codons , which are decoded and translated ( in eukaryotes usually into one and in prokaryotes usually into several ) into proteins by the ribosome .
Untranslated regions ( UTRs ) are sections of the mRNA before the start codon and after the stop codon that are not translated , termed the five prime untranslated region ( 5 ' UTR ) and three prime untranslated region ( 3 ' UTR ) , respectively .
Dicistronic or bicistronic is an mRNA that encodes only two proteins .
In eukaryotes mRNA molecules form circular structures due to an interaction between the eIF4E and poly ( A ) - binding protein ; which both bind to eIF4G , forming an mRNA-protein-mRNA bridge .
In some instances , small RNA molecules ( sRNA ) tens to hundreds of nucleotides long can stimulate the degradation of specific mRNAs by base-pairing with complementary sequences and facilitating ribonuclease cleavage by RNase III .
Messages that are being actively translated are bound by ribosomes , the eukaryotic initiation factors eIF-4E and eIF-4G , and poly ( A ) - binding protein .
Charles Welsford West ( architect ) designed the Romanesque chapel and annex ( 1903 -- 05 ) at Mount St. Vincent Academy ( now University ) .
Many phonologists in the middle part of the 20th century had a strong interest in developing techniques for discovering the phonemes of unknown languages , and in some cases setting up writing systems for these languages .
Minimal pair was an essential tool in the discovery process , arrived at by substitution or commutation tests .
English speakers are able to hear the difference between , for example , ` great ape ' and ` grey tape ' , though phonemically the two phrases are identical : .
At the word-boundary , a `` plus juncture '' / + / is posited which is said to be the conditioning factor that results in ` great ape ' having an / eɪ / diphthong shortened by pre-fortis clipping and a / t / with little aspiration because it is not syllable-initial , whereas in ` grey tape ' the has Minimal pair full length and the / t / is aspirated .
One of the objectives of contrastive analysis of languages ' sound systems was to identify points of likely difficulty for language learners arising from differences in phoneme inventories between Minimal pair and the target language .
Minimal pair is an essential tool in the discovery process , arrived at by substitution or commutation tests .
The Old Prussian towns of Kaup and Truso on the Baltic were the starting points of the route to the south .
One of the oldest directions of the last stage of the Amber Road to the south of Danube , noted in the myth about the Argonauts , used Sava and Kupa rivers ending with a short continental road from Nauportus to Tarsatica ( Trsat , Rijeka ) at the coast of Adriatic .
A small section , including Baarn , Barneveld , Amersfoort and Amerongen , connected the North Sea with the Lower Rhine .
A small section , led southwards from Antwerp and Bruges to the towns Braine-l’Alleud and Braine-le-Comte , both originally named `` Brennia-Brenna '' .
Angelo Pellegrini , however , argued that the base of minestrone is bean broth , and that Roman beans ( also called Borlotti beans ) `` are the beans to use for genuine minestrone '' .
Crandall University Moral Code states that sexual relationships are to take place in the confines of a marriage between one man and one woman - staff and faculty are expected to adhere to the University 's Moral Code .
Miranda (moon) is the smallest and innermost of Uranus 's five major moons .
Large ` racetrack ' - like grooved structures , called coronae , may have formed via extensional processes at the tops of diapirs , or upwellings of warm ice .
An earlier theory , proposed shortly after the Voyager 2 flyby , was that a previous incarnation of Miranda (moon) was shattered by a massive impact , with the fragments reassembling and denser ones subsequently sinking to produce the current strange pattern .
Interest in Mars has been stimulated by the planet 's dramatic red color , by early scientific speculations that Mars in fiction surface conditions might be capable of supporting life , and by the possibility that Mars could be colonized by humans in the future .
Lowell 's books on Mars expanded on this notion of Martian canals , and a standard model of Mars as a drying , cooling , dying world was established .
Several early modern writers , including Athanasius Kircher and Emanuel Swedenborg , hypothesized contact with Mars .
These were followed by Gregory Benford 's The Martian Race ( 1999 ) , Geoffrey A. Landis 's Mars Crossing ( 2000 ) , and Robert Zubrin 's First Landing ( 2002 ) , which took as their starting points the smaller and more focussed expedition strategies evolved in the late 1990s , mostly building on the concepts of Mars Direct .
Martians , other than human beings transplanted to Mars , became rare in fiction after Mariner , except in exercises of deliberate nostalgia -- more frequently in some genres , such as comics and animation , than in written literature .
Mars in fiction is part of the plot of the movie Total Recall and the television series Babylon 5 .
The McIntosh Red ( or McIntosh (apple) ; colloquially , the Mac ) is an apple cultivar with red and green skin , a tart flavor , and tender white flesh .
McIntosh (apple) is traditionally the most popular cultivar in Eastern Canada and New England , well known for the pink applesauce unpeeled McIntoshes make .
McIntosh (apple) is also well-suited for cider and pies .
McIntosh (apple) is an apple cultivar with red and green skin , a tart flavor , and tender white flesh .
In the Spanish language the word is the diminutive form of the word macho , which means male or strong and was used to refer to sledgehammers .
In the English-speaking Caribbean such as Barbados , Jamaica , Guyana , Grenada and in Trinidad and Tobago , the term `` cutlass '' is used for these agricultural tools .
Besides this , in Latin America a common use is for such household tasks as cutting large foodstuffs into pieces -- much as a cleaver is used -- or to perform crude cutting tasks such as making simple wooden handles for other tools .
In 1762 , the Kingdom of Great Britain invaded Cuba in the Battle of Havana , and peasant guerrillas led by Pepe Antonio , a Guanabacoa councilman , used machetes in the defense of the city .
The Brazilian Army 's Instruction Center on Jungle Warfare developed Machete with a blade 10 in in length and a very pronounced clip point .
This machete is issued with a 5-inch Bowie knife and a sharpening stone in the scabbard ; collectively called a `` jungle kit '' ( Conjunto de Selva in Portuguese ) ; Machete is manufactured by Indústria de Material Bélico do Brasil ( IMBEL ) .
This tool has been used as a weapon : during the Mau Mau Uprising ; in the Rwandan Genocide ; in South Africa particularly in the 1980s and early 1990s when the former province of Natal was wracked by conflict between the African National Congress and the Zulu-nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party .
Variations include the longer and more pointed iták intended for combat , and it was also used during the Philippine Revolution against the Spanish colonial authorities , later becoming a signature weapon of guerrillas in the Philippine-American War ; the longest variation , called a kampilan , was used by the ancient sultanates of Mindanao .
The primary purpose of a `` Pra '' is farm work and clearing vegetation .
The grosse messer was a Medieval large knife , employed both as a tool and as a weapon .
Toughness is important because of the twisting and impact forces that the relatively thin blade may encounter , while edge retention is secondary .
As a result , for most Mushroom , if the cap is cut off and placed gill-side-down overnight , a powdery impression reflecting the shape of the gills ( or pores , or spines , etc. ) is formed ( when the fruit body is sporulating ) .
However , in modern molecularly defined classifications , not all members of the order Agaricales produce mushroom fruit bodies , and many other gilled fungi , collectively called mushrooms , occur in other orders of the class Agaricomycetes .
For example , chanterelles are in the Cantharellales , false chanterelles such as Gomphus are in the Gomphales , milk mushrooms ( Lactarius ) and russulas ( Russula ) , as well as Lentinellus , are in the Russulales , while the tough , leathery genera Lentinus and Panus are among the Polyporales , but Neolentinus is in the Gloeophyllales , and the little pin-mushroom genus , Rickenella , along with similar genera , are in the Hymenochaetales .
Within the main body of Mushroom , in the Agaricales , are common fungi like the common fairy-ring mushroom ( Marasmius oreades ) , shiitake , enoki , oyster mushrooms , fly agarics , and other amanitas , magic mushrooms like species of Psilocybe , paddy straw mushrooms , shaggy manes , etc.
An atypical mushroom is the lobster mushroom , which is a deformed , cooked-lobster-colored parasitized fruitbody of a Russula or Lactarius , colored and deformed by the mycoparasitic Ascomycete Hypomyces lactifluorum .
In German folklore and old fairy tales , toads are often depicted sitting on toadstool mushrooms and catching , with their tongues , the flies that are said to be drawn to the Fliegenpilz , a German name for the toadstool , meaning `` flies ' mushroom '' .
The term `` fungophobia '' was coined by William Delisle Hay of England , who noted a national superstition or fear of `` toadstools '' .
Mushroom develops from a nodule , or pinhead , less than two millimeters in diameter , called a primordium , which is typically found on or near the surface of the substrate .
Mushroom in the genera Agaricus , Amanita , Lepiota and Pluteus , among others , have free gills that do not extend to the top of the stalk .
These distinctions between attached gills are sometimes difficult to interpret , since gill attachment may change as Mushroom matures , or with different environmental conditions .
The fertile portion of the Gasteromycetes , called a gleba , may become powdery as in the puffballs or slimy as in the stinkhorns .
A double-blind study , done by the Johns Hopkins Hospital , showed psychedelic mushrooms could provide people an experience with substantial personal meaning and spiritual significance .
The term reliability , availability and serviceability ( RAS ) is a defining characteristic of Mainframe computer .
Since the mid-1960s , mainframe designs have included several subsidiary computers ( called channels or peripheral processors ) which manage the I/O devices , leaving the CPU free to deal only with high-speed memory .
Mainframe return on investment ( ROI ) , like any other computing platform , is dependent on Mainframe computer ability to scale , support mixed workloads , reduce labor costs , deliver uninterrupted service for critical business applications , and several other risk-adjusted cost factors .
Fujitsu and Hitachi both continue to use custom S/390-compatible processors , as well as other CPUs ( including POWER , SPARC , MIPS , and Xeon ) for lower-end systems .
The latter architecture has continued to evolve into their current zSeries mainframes which , along with the then Burroughs and Sperry ( now Unisys ) MCP-based and OS1100 mainframes , are among the few mainframe architectures still extant that can trace their roots to this early period .
That said , while IBM 's zSeries can still run 24-bit System/360 code , the 64-bit zSeries and System z9 CMOS servers have nothing physically in common with the older systems .
Shrinking demand and tough competition started a shakeout in the market in the early 1970s -- RCA sold out to UNIVAC and GE also left ; in the 1980s Honeywell was bought out by Bull ; UNIVAC became a division of Sperry , which later merged with Burroughs to form Unisys Corporation in 1986 .
Rapid expansion and development in emerging markets , particularly People 's Republic of China , is also spurring major mainframe investments to solve exceptionally difficult computing problems , e.g.
For example , suppose that the important design requirements are displayed visually ; then , in response to a user 's change in trial values for parameters , the curves describing the design change shape , and Microsoft Excel points of intersection shift , assisting the selection of the best design .
OLE Object Linking and Embedding : allows a Windows application to control another to enable Microsoft Excel to format or calculate data .
Microsoft pushed Microsoft Excel advantage with regular new releases , every two years or so .
Microsoft Excel also introduced intelligent cell recomputation , where only cells dependent on the cell being modified are updated ( previous spreadsheet programs recomputed everything all the time or waited for a specific user command ) .
To illustrate , the number of rows was now 1,048,576 ( 220 ) and columns was 16,384 ( 214 ; the far-right column is XFD ) .
This version made more extensive use of multiple cores for the calculation of spreadsheets ; however , VBA macros are not handled in parallel and XLL add‑ins were only executed in parallel if they were thread-safe and this was indicated at registration .
Michael Hutchence ( 22 January 1960 -- 22 November 1997 ) was an Australian musician and actor .
Michael Hutchence half-sister , Tina , was 11 years old when Kell and Patricia married in January 1959 .
In 1977 , a new band , The Farriss Brothers , was formed with Tim Farriss on lead guitar , Michael Hutchence younger brother Andrew as keyboardist , and youngest brother Jon on drums .
In March 1985 , after Michael Hutchence and INXS recorded their album The Swing ( 1984 ) , WEA released the Australian version of Dekadance , as a limited edition cassette only EP of six tracks including remixes from the album .
The cassette also included a cover version of Nancy Sinatra and Lee Hazlewood 's hit `` Jackson '' , which Michael Hutchence sang as a duet with Jenny Morris , a backing singer for The Swing sessions .
Back in 1979 , both INXS and Whirlywirld had played at the Crystal Ballroom , in Fitzroy Street , St Kilda , which featured in the film .
It was an upbeat , confident album that yielded four Top 10 U.S. singles , `` New Sensation '' , `` Never Tear Us Apart '' , `` Devil Inside '' and No. 1 `` Need You Tonight '' .
Michael Hutchence wrote most of the music and provided `` an extraordinary performance ... it was one of the most significant statements Michael Hutchence was to make '' .
`` Suicide Blonde '' peaked at No. 2 in Australia and No. 11 in the UK .
Yates ' separation from Geldof in February 1995 sparked a public and at times bitter custody battle over their daughters -- they divorced in May 1996 .
While singer Liam Gallagher was receptive to Hutchence , lead guitarist Noel Gallagher objected to Michael Hutchence presence , and opined that `` Has-beens should n't be presenting awards to gonna-bes '' .
On 6 February 1998 , after an autopsy and coronial inquest , New South Wales State Coroner , Derrick Hand , presented Michael Hutchence report which ruled that Hutchence 's death was a suicide while depressed and under the influence of drugs and alcohol .
Former girlfriend Kym Wilson and her then boyfriend , Andrew Reyment , were the last people to see Hutchence alive when they left Michael Hutchence at 4:50 am ; Michael Hutchence was still awaiting a phone call from Yates in London concerning whether she would bring their daughter Tiger to Australia .
After Hutchence 's death , Geldof and Yates each gave police statements on the phone calls they exchanged with Hutchence that morning but did not volunteer their phone records .
The occupant in the room next to Room 524 heard a loud male voice and swearing at about 5 am , the coroner was satisfied that this was Hutchence arguing with Geldof .
In 2000 , Patricia Glassop ( Hutchence 's mother , who had remarried ) and Tina Schorr ( Michael Hutchence sister ) , gave an interview on This Morning asserting that Yates had , on more than one occasion , made threats of harming herself or the baby if Hutchence did not marry her ; and , that they believed she said this again on the morning of Michael Hutchence death , directly precipitating Michael Hutchence suicide .
Simon LeBon of Duran Duran , a close friend of Hutchence , wrote the lyrics to the song `` Michael , You 've Got A Lot To Answer For '' about Michael Hutchence friend and the apparent troubles Michael Hutchence was having at the time .
INXS decided to continue without Michael Hutchence and , on 14 November 1998 , they performed at Mushroom Records ' 25th anniversary concert -- recorded as Mushroom 25 Live -- with Jimmy Barnes handling vocals .
On 18 June 2000 , Michael Hutchence mother Patricia and sister Tina released their book , Just a Man : The Real Michael Hutchence , which is described as `` an odd biography ... that combines the basic facts of Hutchence 's early life ... with an almost too-intimate view of the authors ' feelings '' .
Millions of dollars in property and other assets , including ongoing royalties from INXS , were held in ` The Vocals Trust ' , a complex arrangement of international companies and trusts , of which Michael Hutchence was not a beneficiary .
Gordon Fisher , who set up the arrangement , stated that Hutchence used this structure to keep Michael Hutchence wealth from Michael Hutchence `` thieving relatives '' and `` girlfriends '' .
In 1985 -- 86 , Andrew Wiles was a Guggenheim Fellow at the Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques near Paris and at the École Normale Supérieure .
Andrew Wiles further worked with Barry Mazur on the main conjecture of Iwasawa theory over the rational numbers , and soon afterward , Andrew Wiles generalized this result to totally real fields .
National Semiconductor had been first with Motorola 68000 IMP-16 and PACE processors in 1973-1975 , but these had issues with speed .
Motorola 68000 was used in Microsoft Xenix systems as well as a prototype Netware Unix based Server ( after the MC6800 series was not found to be powerful enough and before the move to Intel 8X086 processors ) .
These included Hitachi ( HD68000 ) , who shrank the feature size to 2.7-microns for Motorola 68000 12.5 MHz version , Mostek ( MK68000 ) , Rockwell ( R68000 ) , Signetics ( SCN68000 ) , Thomson/SGS-Thomson ( originally EF68000 and later TS68000 ) , and Toshiba ( TMP68000 ) .
The original HMOS MC68000 consumed around 1.35 watts at an ambient temperature of 25 ° C , regardless of clock speed , while Motorola 68000 consumed only 0.13 watts at 8 MHz and 0.38 watts at 20 MHz. ( Unlike CMOS circuits , HMOS still draws power when idle , so power consumption varies little with clock rate .
Motorola 68000 architectural descendants , the 680x0 , CPU32 , and Coldfire families , are also still in production .
Helix Systems ( in Missouri , United States ) designed an extension to the SWTPC SS-50 bus , the SS-64 , and produced systems built around the 68008 processor .
Video game manufacturers used the 68000 as the backbone of many arcade games and home game consoles : Atari 's Food Fight , from 1982 , was one of the first 68000-based arcade games .
The 683XX microcontrollers , based on the 68000-architecture , are used in networking and telecom equipment , television set-top boxes , laboratory and medical instruments , and even handheld calculators .
The CPU has eight 32-bit general-purpose data registers ( D0-D7 ) , and eight address registers ( A0-A7 ) .
However , the dual stack pointer A7 and A7 ' design of Motorola 68000 makes this normally unnecessary , except when a task switch is performed in a multitasking system .
The first vector ( RESET ) consisted of 2 Vectors , namely the starting stack address , and the second was the starting code address .
The 68000 did not meet the Popek and Goldberg virtualization requirements for full processor virtualization because Motorola 68000 has a single unprivileged instruction `` MOVE from SR '' , which allowed user-mode software read-only access to a small amount of privileged state .
Motorola 68000 also was used as a sound controller in the Sega Saturn game console , and as a controller for the HP JetDirect Ethernet controller boards for the mid-90s LaserJet printers .
A minicomputer , or colloquially mini , is a class of smaller computers that evolved in the mid-1960s and sold for much less than mainframe and mid-size computers from IBM and Minicomputer direct competitors .
In a 1970 survey , the New York Times suggested a consensus definition of a minicomputer as a machine costing less than with an input-output device such as a teleprinter and at least 4K words of memory , that is capable of running programs in a higher level language , such as Fortran or Basic .
When single-chip CPUs appeared , beginning with the Intel 4004 in 1971 , the term `` minicomputer '' came to mean a machine that lies in the middle range of the computing spectrum , in between the smallest mainframe computers and the microcomputers .
The term `` minicomputer '' is little used today ; the contemporary term for this class of system is `` midrange computer '' , such as the higher-end SPARC , Power Architecture and Itanium-based systems from Oracle , IBM and Hewlett-Packard .
As microprocessors have become more powerful , the CPUs built up from multiple components -- once the distinguishing feature differentiating mainframes and midrange systems from microcomputers -- have become increasingly obsolete , even in the largest mainframe computers .
Great efforts were made by IBM to enable programs originally written for the System/34 and System/36 to be moved to the AS/400 .
And although today 's PCs and servers are clearly microcomputers physically , architecturally their CPUs and operating systems have evolved largely by integrating features from Minicomputer .
For units equipped with most types of APC or any type of IFV , fire support weapons , such as machine guns , autocannons , small-bore direct-fire howitzers , and even anti-tank guided missiles , are often mounted directly on Mechanized infantry own transport vehicles .
Although some proponents of mobile warfare -- such as J. F. C. Fuller -- advocated building `` tank fleets '' , others -- such as Heinz Guderian in Germany , Adna R. Chaffee Jr. in the United States , and Mikhail Tukhachevsky in the Soviet Union -- recognized that tank units required close support from infantry and other arms , and that these supporting arms needed to maintain the same pace as the tanks .
The Canadian Army , and subsequently the British Army also , used expedients such as the Kangaroo APC , usually for specific operations rather than to create permanent mechanized infantry formations .
The Red Army began the war while still in the process of reorganizing Mechanized infantry armored and mechanized formations , most of which were destroyed during the first months of the German invasion of the Soviet Union .
The Soviet Army also created several Cavalry mechanized groups in which tanks , Mechanized infantry and horsed cavalry were mixed .
Soviet organization led to different tactics between the `` light '' and `` heavy '' varieties of mechanized infantry .
The first of these was the BMD-1 , which had the same firepower as the BMP-1 , but which could be carried in or even parachuted from the standard Soviet transport aircraft .
In Operation Desert Shield , during the buildup phase of the 1st Gulf War , the U.S. Army was concerned about the lack of mobility , protection and firepower offered by existing rapid deployment ( i.e. airborne ) formations ; and also about the slowness of deploying regular armored units .
The transport and other logistic requirements have led many armies to adopt wheeled APCs when their existing stocks of tracked APCs require replacement .
In the Russian Army , such vehicles were introduced for fighting in urban areas , where the risk from short range infantry anti-tank weapons , such as the RPG-7 , is highest , after Russian tank and motor infantry units suffered heavy losses fighting insurgents in Grozny during the First Chechen War in 1995 .
Some of the latest designs ( such as the German Puma ) are intended to allow a light , basic model vehicle , which is air-transportable , to be fitted in the field with additional protection , thereby ensuring both strategic flexibility and survivability .
Having achieved spectacular successes in the offensive with tank-heavy formations during the Six Day War , the Israeli Defense Force found in the Yom Kippur War of 1973 that a doctrine that relied primarily on tanks and aircraft had proven inadequate .
The Jews of Malachi day ascribed the Book of Malachi , the last book of prophecy , to Ezra but if Ezra 's name was originally associated with the book , it would hardly have been dropped by the collectors of the prophetic Canon who lived only a century or two subsequent to Ezra 's time .
Professor G.G. Cameron , suggests that the termination of the word `` Malachi '' is adjectival , and equivalent to the Latin angelicus , signifying `` one charged with a message or mission '' ( a missionary ) .
Malachi speaks of the `` people 's governor '' ( Hebrew `` pechah '' , , as do Haggai and Nehemiah ( ; ; .
Martin Fowler ( born 1963 ) is an Anglo-American software engineer , author and international speaker on software development , specializing in object-oriented analysis and design , UML , patterns , and agile software development methodologies , including extreme programming .
Microsoft Word 2001 , released in 2000 , added a few new features , including the Office Clipboard , which allowed users to copy and paste multiple items .
It was the last version to run on classic Mac OS and , on Mac OS X , Microsoft Word could only run within the Classic Environment .
Microsoft Word 2008 , released on January 15 , 2008 , included a Ribbon-like feature , called the Elements Gallery , that can be used to select page layouts and insert custom diagrams and images .
Microsoft Word 2010 allows more customization of the Ribbon , adds a Backstage view for file management , has improved document navigation , allows creation and embedding of screenshots , and integrates with Word Web App .
`` Storages '' are analogues of the directory on a disk drive , and point to other storages or `` streams '' which are similar to files on a disk .
`` Property storages '' provide metadata about the storages and streams in a doc file , such as where Microsoft Word begins and Microsoft Word name and so forth .
The `` File information block '' contains information about where the text in Microsoft Word starts , ends , what version of Microsoft Word created the document and other attributes .
Rich Text Format ( RTF ) , an early effort to create a format for interchanging formatted text between applications , is an optional format for Microsoft Word that retains most formatting and all content of the original document .
Plugins permitting the Windows versions of Word to read and write formats Microsoft Word does not natively support , such as international standard OpenDocument format ( ODF ) ( ISO/IEC 26300:2006 ) , are available .
In July 2006 , Microsoft announced the creation of the Open XML Translator project -- tools to build a technical bridge between the Microsoft Office Open XML Formats and the OpenDocument Format ( ODF ) .
If `` Mirror margins '' or `` Different odd and even '' are enabled , Microsoft Word will not allow the user to freshly begin page numbering an even page after a section break ( and vice versa ) .
First , AutoSummarize identifies the most common words in the document ( barring `` a '' and `` the '' and the like ) and assigns a `` score '' to each word -- the more frequently Microsoft Word is used , the higher the score .
Microsoft Outlook ( not to be confused with Outlook Express ) is a personal information manager and e-mail communication software .
Most versions of Microsoft Office ( including Office 97 and later ) use Microsoft Office own widget set and do not exactly match the native operating system .
For example , the toolbar , colored buttons and the gray-colored ' 3D ' look of Microsoft Office were added to Windows 95 , and the Ribbon , introduced in Microsoft Office 2007 , has been incorporated into several applications bundled with Windows 7 .
Both Windows and Microsoft Office use Service Packs to update software , Microsoft Office used to release non-cumulative Service Releases , which were discontinued after Microsoft Office 2000 Service Release 1 .
The revenue is divided between the developer and Microsoft where developer gets 80 % of the money .
Office 4.3 ( plus Access 2.0 in the Pro version ) is the last version to support Windows 3.x , Windows NT 3.1 and Windows NT 3.5 .
Microsoft has noted that some features are added to Office for Mac before Microsoft Office appear in Windows versions , such as Office for Mac 2001 's Office Project Gallery and PowerPoint Movie feature , which allows users to save presentations as QuickTime movies .
Microsoft Office included drag -- and-drop installation , self-repairing applications and Quick Thesaurus , before such features were available in Office for Windows .
Microsoft Office 2001 launched in 2000 , was the last Office suite for the classic Mac OS ; Microsoft Office required Mac OS 8 , although version 8.5 or later was recommended .
MultiMate 's greatest advantage -- and MultiMate mandate from Connecticut Mutual -- was that MultiMate allowed companies to easily replace dedicated Wang Word Processor workstations with PCs , with an order of magnitude reduction in cost .
Anne Brontë second and last novel , The Tenant of Wildfell Hall , which is considered to be one of the first sustained feminist novels , appeared in 1848 .
Anne 's mother , Maria Branwell ( 1783 -- 1821 ) , was the daughter of Thomas Branwell , a successful , property-owning grocer and tea merchant in Penzance and Anne Carne , the daughter of a silversmith .
It is such a character that Anne Brontë portrays in Edward Weston , and that Anne Brontë heroine Agnes Grey finds deeply appealing .
When Anne and Anne Brontë brother returned home for the holidays in June 1846 , Anne Brontë resigned Anne Brontë position .
While Anne gave no reason for leaving Thorp Green , it is thought Anne Brontë wanted to leave on becoming aware of the relationship between Anne Brontë brother and Mrs Robinson .
While Anne Brontë and Emily 's novels ` lingered in the press ' , Charlotte 's second novel was an immediate and resounding success .
En route , they spent a day and a night in York , where , escorting Anne Brontë around in a wheelchair , they did some shopping , and at Anne 's request , visited York Minster .
Mohammad Najibullah Ahmadzai , better known mononymously as Mohammad Najibullah or Najib , was President of Afghanistan from 1987 until 1992 when the mujahideen took over Kabul .
Mikhail Gorbachev , the last Soviet leader , was able to get Karmal to step down as PDPA General Secretary in 1986 , and replace Mohammad Najibullah with Najibullah .
While direct Soviet assistance ended with the withdraw , the Soviet Union still supported Mohammad Najibullah with economic and military aid , while the United States continued its support for the mujahideen .
Mohammad Najibullah ancestral village is located between the towns of Said Karam and Gardēz in Paktia Province , this place is known as Mehlan .
With the situation in Afghanistan deteriorating , and the Soviet leadership looking for ways to withdraw , Mikhail Gorbachev wanted Karmal to resign as PDPA General Secretary .
They believed that Sarwari , in contrast to Mohammad Najibullah would be able to balance between the Pashtuns , Tajiks and Uzbeks .
At the end of 1986 , Najibullah called for a six-months ceasefire and talks between the various opposition forces , this was part of Mohammad Najibullah police of National Reconciliation .
On 13 July 1987 the official name of Afghanistan was changed from the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan to Republic of Afghanistan , and in June 1988 the Revolutionary Council , whose members were elected by the party leadership , was replaced by a National Assembly , an organ in which members were to be elected by the people .
Yuli Vorontsov , on Gorbachev 's orders , was able to get an agreement with the PDPA leadership to offer the posts of Gossoviet chairman ( the state planning organ ) , the Council of Ministers chairmanship ( head of government ) , ministries of defence , state security , communications , finance , presidencies of banks and the Supreme Court .
As expected , none of these targets were met , and 2 percent growth annually which had been the norm before the plan continued under Mohammad Najibullah .
General Tokhi , who was with Dr. Najibullah until the day before Mohammad Najibullah torture and murder , wrote that when three people came to both Dr. Najibullah and General Tokhi and asked them to come with them to flee Kabul , they rejected the offer .
Najibullah 's and Mohammad Najibullah brother 's body were hanged on public display to show the public that a new era had begun .
Version compatibility The latest version of System Software that Multiplan 1.1 was tested with is System Software 2.0 which used System 4.1 and Finder 5.5 A fundamental difference between Multiplan and Multiplan competitors was Microsoft 's decision to use R1C1 addressing instead of the A1 addressing introduced by VisiCalc .
As is the case with Reverse Polish notation , although R1C1-style formulas are more efficient than A1-style formulae ( for instance , relative and absolute references can be mixed in the same expression , as `` R1C '' to mean `` row 1 , this column '' ) , most spreadsheet users prefer the A1 addressing style introduced by VisiCalc .
The MOS Technology 6502 ( pronounced `` sixty-five-oh-two '' ) is an 8-bit microprocessor that was designed by Chuck Peddle and Bill Mensch for MOS Technology in 1975 .
Allen-Bradley , a supplier of electronic components and industrial controls , acquired a majority interest in 1970 .
At MOS Technology the `` layout '' was a very manual process done with color pencils and vellum paper .
The 6501/6502 introduction in print and at Wescon was an enormous success .
The first was in June 1976 and the second was to Bill Mensch on July 6 , 1976 for the 6820 chip layout .
The 6510 , a direct successor of the 6502 with a digital I/O port and a tri-state address bus , was the CPU utilized in the best-selling Commodore 64 home computer .
The low clock frequency moderated the speed requirement of memory and peripherals attached to the CPU , as only about 50 percent of the clock cycle was available for memory access ( due to the asynchronous design , this percentage varied strongly among chip versions ) .
.127 therefore translates to 128 bytes backward and 127 bytes forward from the instruction following the branch ( which is 126 bytes backward and 129 bytes forward from the start of the branch instruction ) .
This can be used by a high-speed polling device driver , which can poll the hardware once in only three cycles by using a Branch-on-oVerflow-Clear ( BVC ) instruction that branches to MOS Technology 6502 ; for example the Commodore 1541 and other Commodore floppy disk drives use MOS Technology 6502 to detect as quickly as possible whether the serializer is ready to accept or provide another byte of disk data , as a normal test-and-branch loop takes seven cycles which is too slow in that particular application .
These `` accelerators '' included a modicum of high-speed RAM and glue circuitry used to synchronize the faster processor with the computer 's original RAM and MOS Technology 6502 peripherals .
The first accelerators were circuit boards ; some later accelerators ( such as the Zip Chip ) miniaturized the processor and support circuits to fit into a DIP package that was plug compatible with the original processor .
In the C64 the extra pins of MOS Technology 6510 were used to control MOS Technology 6510 memory map by bank switching , and in the C64 also for controlling three of the four signal lines of the Datassette tape recorder ( the electric motor control , key-press sensing and write data lines ; the read data line went to another I/O chip ) .
Augustine of Hippo ( or ; ; 13 November 354 -- 28 August 430 ) , also known as St Augustine , St Austin , or St Augoustinos , was an early Christian theologian whose writings are considered very influential in the development of Western Christianity and Western philosophy .
Augustine of Hippo father , Patricius , was a pagan , and Augustine of Hippo mother , Monica , was a Christian .
Augustine of Hippo first insight into the nature of sin , occurred when Augustine of Hippo and a number of friends stole fruit they did n't even want from a neighborhood garden .
Disturbed by the unruly behavior of the students in Carthage , in 383 Augustine of Hippo moved to establish a school in Rome , where Augustine of Hippo believed the best and brightest rhetoricians practiced .
The only thing Augustine of Hippo kept was the family house , which Augustine of Hippo converted into a monastic foundation for Augustine of Hippo and a group of friends .
Around 720 , Augustine of Hippo remains were translated again by Peter , bishop of Pavia and uncle of the Lombard king Liutprand , to the church of San Pietro in Ciel d'Oro , in order to save them from frequent coastal raids by Muslims .
The Augustinians were expelled from Pavia in 1700 , taking refuge in Milan with the relics of Augustine , and the disassembled Arca , which were removed to the cathedral there .
Like other Church Fathers such as Athenagoras , St. Augustine `` vigorously condemned the practice of induced abortion '' as a crime , in any stage of pregnancy , although Augustine of Hippo accepted the distinction between `` formed '' and `` unformed '' fetuses mentioned in the Septuagint translation of , a text that , Augustine of Hippo observed , did not classify as murder the abortion of an `` unformed '' fetus , since it could not be said with certainty that it had already received a soul ( see , e.g. , De Origine Animae4 .4 ) .
The former is the institutional body established by Christ on earth which proclaims salvation and administers the sacraments while the latter is the invisible body of the elect , made up of genuine believers from all ages , and who are known only to God .
Augustine of Hippo was the first theologian to systematically expound a doctrine of amillennialism , although some theologians and Christian historians believe Augustine of Hippo position was closer to that of modern postmillennialists .
Augustine upheld the early Christian understanding of the Real Presence of Christ in the Eucharist , saying that Christ 's statement , `` This is Augustine of Hippo body '' referred to the bread Augustine of Hippo carried in Augustine of Hippo hands , and that Christians must have faith that the bread and wine are in fact the body and blood of Christ , despite what they see with their eyes .
Augustine of Hippo believed that the serpent approached Eve because she was less rational and lacked self-control , while Adam 's choice to eat was viewed as an act of kindness so that Eve would not be left alone .
The three different kinds of students are : the student who has been well-educated by knowledgeable teachers ; the student who has had no education ; and the student who has had a poor education , but believes Augustine of Hippo to be well-educated .
Augustine stressed the importance of showing this type of student the difference between `` having words and having understanding , '' and of helping the student to remain humble with Augustine of Hippo acquisition of knowledge .
The mixed style includes complex and sometimes showy language to help students see the beautiful artistry of the subject they are studying .
Augustine of Hippo On the Trinity , in which Augustine of Hippo developed what has become known as the ` psychological analogy ' of the Trinity , is also among Augustine of Hippo masterpieces , and arguably one of the greatest theological works of all time .
While in Augustine of Hippo pre-Pelagian writings Augustine taught that Adam 's guilt as transmitted to Augustine of Hippo descendants much enfeebles , though does not destroy , the freedom of their will , Protestant reformers Martin Luther and John Calvin affirmed that Original Sin completely destroyed liberty ( see total depravity ) .
Christian Rock artist Disciple named their fourth track on their 2010 release Horseshoes and Handgrenades after Augustine , called : `` The Ballad of St. Augustine '' .
Augustine of Hippo is the first theologian to systematically expound a doctrine of amillennialism , although some theologians and Christian historians believe his position was closer to that of modern postmillennialists .
The 6800 ( `` sixty-eight-hundred '' ) was an 8-bit microprocessor designed and first manufactured by Motorola in 1974 .
The Motorola 6800 architecture and instruction set were influenced by the then popular Digital Equipment Corporation PDP-11 mini computer .
The MC6802 , introduced in 1977 , included 128 bytes of RAM and an internal clock oscillator on chip .
The MC6801 and MC6805 included with RAM , ROM and I/O on a single chip were popular in automotive applications .
Some of these blocks were implemented in the initial M6800 release and more were added over the next few years .
Typical n-channel MOS IC 's required three power supplies : -5 volts , +5 volts and +12 volts .
This was a monitor for a Motorola 6800 computer system that allowed the user to examine the contents of RAM and to save or load programs to tape .
Peddle is listed as an inventor on sixteen Motorola patents , most have six or more co-inventors .
Both are TTL compatible , have an 8-bit bidirectional data bus , a 16-bit stack pointer , a 16-bit address bus that can address 64 KB of memory and come in a 40-pin DIP package .
Motorola 's n-channel MOS test integrated circuits were complete in late 1971 and these indicated the clock rate would be limited to 1 MHz .
The software development tools were available on remote time-sharing computers or the source code was available so the customer could use an in-house computer system .
MOS Technology 's other business , calculator chips , was declining due to a price war with Texas Instruments so their financial backer , Allen-Bradley , decided to limit the possible losses and sold the assets of MOS Technology back to the founders .
Federico Faggin , who had led the development of the Intel 's first microprocessor , the 4004 , and it latest , the 8080 , grew restless under the management changes at Intel .
The MITS Altair 8800 , the first successful personal computer , used the Intel 8080 microprocessor and was featured on the January 1975 cover of Popular Electronics .
Other companies , for instance , Smoke signal Broadcasting ( California ) , Gimix ( Chicago ) , Midwest Scientific ( Olathe , Kansas ) , and Helix Systems ( Hazelwood , Missouri ) , started producing SWTPC Motorola 6800 compatible boards and complete systems .
This was a professional desktop computer that had a Motorola 6800 microprocessor with up to 32 kb of user RAM , 300 kb magnetic tape storage , BASIC in ROM and a 1024 by 780 graphics display .
This ensured Motorola 6800 could get parts if a supplier had financial problems or a disaster .
In keeping with naming practices common to Motorola designs , the 68020 is usually referred to as the ' 020 , pronounced oh-two-oh or '' oh-twenty '' .
The main difference between the two is that Motorola 68020 only has a 24-bit address bus , rather than the 32-bit address bus of the full Motorola 68020 , and thus is only able to address 16 MB of memory .
The Commodore Amiga 1200 computer and the Amiga CD32 games console used the cost-reduced 68EC020 ; the Namco System 22 arcade board has also used this processor .
After Henson 's death in 1990 , The Muppets continued their presence in television and cinema with The Muppets Tonight ( 1996 -- 1998 ) , a series continuation of The Muppet Show , and three films , The Muppet Christmas Carol ( 1992 ) , Muppet Treasure Island ( 1996 ) , The Muppets From Space ( 1999 ) , the former two were co-produced with Disney , who sought to acquire the characters since the late 1980s .
The puppeteer , often dubbed as the `` Muppeteer '' or `` Muppet performer '' , holds the Muppet above The Muppets head or in front of The Muppets body , with one hand operating the head and mouth and the other manipulating the hands and arms , either with two separate control rods or by `` wearing '' the hands like gloves .
The Muppets said the word `` Muppet '' predated Sam and Friends , the first television program featuring The Muppets .
During the 1960s , the characters ( notably Kermit and Rowlf the Dog ) appeared on skits in several late night talk shows and advertising commercials .
By the late 1980s , The Muppets entered discussions with The Walt Disney Company , in which the latter would acquire Jim Henson Productions and in turn , own The Muppets franchise .
Following that , the characters starred in The Muppets Tonight which ran from 1996 to 1998 and a sixth film , Muppets From Space , released by Columbia Pictures in 1999 .
Exceptions included characters created specifically for Sesame Street ( as they were previously sold to Sesame Workshop ) and the Fraggles of Fraggle Rock ( which are still owned by the Jim Henson Company ) .
It was a regular practice for the first few episodes of The Muppet Show , and ZZ Top , among others , have appeared as The Muppets versions of themselves on Sesame Street .
, , America 's Funniest Home Videos and an April Fools ' Day edition of Larry King Live ; and has served as Grand Marshal of the Tournament of Roses Parade .
Miss Piggy has appeared as a guest on The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson and Kermit the Frog appeared on Hollywood Squares and as one of the celebrity commentators on VH1 's I Love documentary series .
Under Disney ownership , albums featuring `` The Muppets '' characters , have since been released by Walt Disney Records , including ( 2005 ) , ( 2006 ) and ( 2011 ) , and ( 2011 ) .
Legal rights to Muppet-related songs such as `` Rainbow Connection '' and the `` The Muppet Show Theme '' , are controlled by Fuzzy Muppet Songs and Mad Muppet Melodies , divisions of Disney Music Publishing .
Their first attraction , Here Comes The Muppets , was a live stage show that opened shortly after The Muppets death and ran at Disney 's Hollywood Studios ( known then as Disney-MGM Studios ) for a year .
or where is the average molar mass of the solution , c total molar concentration and is the density of the solution .
The Impressionists ( also known as the `` Independents '' or `` Intransigents '' ) had no formal manifesto and varied considerably in subject matter and technique .
Mary Cassatt accepted Degas ' invitation with enthusiasm , and began preparing paintings for the next Impressionist show , planned for 1878 , which ( after a postponement because of the World 's Fair ) took place on April 10 , 1879 .
In 1877 , Cassatt was joined in Paris by Mary Cassatt father and mother , who returned with Mary Cassatt sister Lydia .
The sophisticated and well-dressed Degas , then forty-five , was a welcome dinner guest at the Mary Cassatt residence .
The Impressionist exhibit of 1879 was the most successful to date , despite the absence of Renoir , Sisley , Manet and Cézanne , who were attempting once again to gain recognition at the Salon .
Mary Cassatt also made several portraits of family members during that period , of which Portrait of Alexander Cassatt and His Son Robert Kelso ( 1885 ) is one of Mary Cassatt best regarded .
Military academy is an educational institution which prepares candidates for service in the officer corps of the army , the navy , air force or coast guard , which normally provides education in a service environment , the exact definition depending on the country concerned .
Indonesian Army Indonesian Air Force Indonesian Navy Each service academy is headed by two-star officer and his/her deputy is one-star officer .
This is a tertiary institution based officer commissioning program to equip students as officer cadets with military knowledge and understanding for service as Commissioned Officers in the reserve components of the various branches of the Malaysian Armed Forces .
Taking cadets from all three armed services , 3 non-university level Military academy , one for each armed service providing basic training for officer and a Command and Staff College for senior officers of the three armed services .
Although the curriculum at each varies due to the differing nature of the service a person is joining , it is a combination of military and academic study that is designed to turn young civilians into comprehensibly trained military officers .
In the United States , unlike most other countries , the term `` military academy '' does not necessarily mean an institution run by the armed forces to train Military academy own military officers ; Military academy may also mean a middle school , high school or tertiary-level college , whether public or private , which instructs Military academy students in military-style education , discipline and tradition .
Part of the training cadets receive is naval and military in nature .
Through a career that has spanned over fifty years , Hayao Miyazaki has attained international acclaim as a maker of anime feature films and , along with Isao Takahata , co-founded Studio Ghibli , Hayao Miyazaki and animation studio .
Hayao Miyazaki talents were limited to things like planes , tanks and battleships ; Hayao Miyazaki had an especially problematic time drawing people .
Famous manga artists like Osamu Tezuka , Tetsuji Fukushima and Sanpei Shirato influenced Hayao Miyazaki early works .
Pero , the ` Puss In Boots ' from that film would later received two sequels from Toei Animation , during the 1970s and Hayao Miyazaki would ultimately become the studio 's mascot , however Miyazaki was n't involved with any of the sequels .
During this time , Hayao Miyazaki also directed six episodes of Sherlock Hound , an Italian-Japanese co-production between TMS Entertainment and the television station RAI , which retold Sherlock Holmes tales using anthropomorphic animals .
Hayao Miyazaki , was an adventure film that introduced many of the themes which recur in later films : a concern with ecology and the human impact on the environment ; a fascination with aircraft and flight ; pacifism , including an anti-military streak ; feminism ; and morally ambiguous characterizations , especially among villains .
Starring the voices of Sumi Shimamoto , Yōji Matsuda , Iemasa Kayumi , Gorō Naya and Yoshiko Sakakibara , this was the first film both written and directed by Hayao Miyazaki .
Hayao Miyazaki first film with Ghibli , ( 1986 ) recounts the adventure of two orphans seeking a magical castle-island that floats in the sky ; Hayao Miyazaki Neighbor Totoro ( Tonari no Totoro , 1988 ) tells of the adventure of two girls and their interaction with forest spirits ; and Kiki 's Delivery Service ( 1989 ) , adapted from the 1985 novel of the same name by Eiko Kadono , tells the story of a small-town girl who leaves home to begin life as a witch in a big city .
Hayao Miyazaki explores the tension between selfishness and duty .
In 1995 , Hayao Miyazaki began work on Princess Mononoke , which uses the ecological and political themes of Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind .
Starring Yuriko Ishida , Yōji Matsuda , Akihiro Miwa and Yūko Tanaka , the story is about a struggle between the animal spirits inhabiting the forest and the humans exploiting the forest for industry .
Instead , Hayao Miyazaki produced Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind and Shuna no tabi , ( The Journey of Shuna ) as substitutes ( some of the ideas from Shuna no tabi were diverted to this movie ) .
Starring Mirai Shida , Ryūnosuke Kamiki , Tomokazu Miura , Keiko Takeshita , Shinobu Otake and Kirin Kiki , Hayao Miyazaki focuses on a small family known as the Borrowers who must avoid detection when discovered by humans .
Hayao Miyazaki major work in this format is the seven-volume manga version of Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind , which Hayao Miyazaki created from 1982 to 1994 and which has sold millions of copies worldwide .
The most famous story , first published in a collection called Break of Dark , is titled Blackham 's Wimpy , the name of a Vickers Wellington Bomber featured in the story , whose nickname comes from the character J. Wellington Wimpy from the Popeye comics and cartoons ( the Wellington was named for Arthur Wellesley , 1st Duke of Wellington , victor over Napoleon ) .
In an interview with The New Yorker , Hayao Miyazaki claimed that much of modern culture is `` thin and shallow and fake '' , and `` not entirely jokingly '' looked forward to an apocalyptic age in which `` wild green grasses '' take over .
If Hayao Miyazaki staff can relieve Hayao Miyazaki and Hayao Miyazaki can concentrate on directing , there are still a number of movies Hayao Miyazaki 'd like to make '' .
In an interview with the Financial Times , Miyazaki said `` it 's very important for Hayao Miyazaki to retain the right ratio between working by hand and computer .
Hayao Miyazaki has also publicly expressed fondness for Roald Dahl 's stories about pilots and airplanes ; the image in Porco Rosso of a cloud of dead pilots was inspired by Dahl 's They Shall Not Grow Old .
In May 2006 , David Sproxton and Peter Lord , founders of Aardman Studios , visited the Ghibli Museum exhibit dedicated to their works , where they also met Hayao Miyazaki .
The creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series , Hironobu Sakaguchi , cited Miyazaki as inspiration for elements such as the airships and chocobos featured in the series .
Hufeland was an influential doctor who was active in medical research and became a medical professor at Jena and , later , the first dean of medicine at the University of Berlin .
In his book , Hufeland refers to a life force which he claimed is present in everything and most easily detected in `` organic beings '' ( live organisms ) , where Macrobiotic diet manifests in Macrobiotic diet response to external stimuli .
Japanese macrobiotics emphasizes locally grown whole grain cereals , pulses ( legumes ) , vegetables , seaweed , fermented soy products and fruit , combined into meals according to the principle of balance ( known as yin and yang ) .
Whole grains and whole-grain products such as brown rice and buckwheat pasta ( soba ) , a variety of cooked and raw vegetables , beans and bean products , mild natural seasonings , fish , nuts and seeds , mild ( non-stimulating ) beverages such as bancha twig tea and fruit are recommended .
The following nutrients should be monitored especially in children , because of their importance in facilitating growth and function : calcium , protein , iron , zinc , vitamin D , vitamin B12 , riboflavin , vitamin A , omega-3 fatty acids .
Although plant-derived foods do not naturally contain B12 , some are fortified during processing with added B12 and other nutrients .
Vitamin A , in the form of beta-carotene , is available from plants such as carrots and spinach .
Iron in the form of non-heme iron in beans , sea vegetables and leafy greens is sufficient for good health ; detailed information is in the USDA database .
In 1971 , the AMA Council on Foods and Nutrition said that followers of the macrobiotic diet , particularly the strictest , stood in `` great danger '' of malnutrition .
These businesses ( except for set-top boxes and cable modems ) are now part of Motorola Solutions .
Also known as the Personal Communication Sector ( PCS ) prior to 2004 , Motorola pioneered the `` flip phone '' with the MicroTAC -- and , the `` clam phone '' with the StarTAC -- in the mid-1990s .
In 1955 , years after Motorola started Motorola research and development laboratory in Phoenix , Arizona , to research new solid-state technology , Motorola introduced the world 's first commercial high-power germanium-based transistor .
Known as `` Ma Batwings , '' Motorola has provided little to no support to hobbyists , who keep using these radios for years or even decades after they were taken out of production .
In 1991 , Motorola demonstrated the world 's first working-prototype digital cellular system and phones using GSM standard in Hanover , Germany .
In 1974 , Motorola divested Motorola of Motorola television and radio-manufacturing division , which included the popular Quasar brand of electronics .
In fact , according to the filing , Google senior vice president Andy Rubin first reached out to Motorola Mobility in early July 2011 to discuss the purchase by some of Google 's competitors of the patent portfolio of Nortel Networks Corp. , and to assess Motorola potential impact on the Android ecosystem .
The next day , Mr. Jha , Mr. Arora and Google chief legal officer David Drummond met to discuss the terms of an acquisition of Motorola .
Harold Guskin 's approach or `` taking Acting off the page '' as he calls Acting is steeped in this philosophy .
Acting involves two forms of communication : intrascenic ( communication between characters ) and extrascenic ( communication between the characters and the audience ) .
The MX-5 , also known as Miata in North America and Eunos Roadster in Japan , is a lightweight two-seater roadster with a front-engine , rear-wheel-drive layout .
Thus , under head of project Masakatsu , the concept development was turned into a competition between the Mazda design teams in Tokyo and California .
The task of constructing five engineering mules ( more developed prototypes ) was again allocated to IAD , which also conducted the first front and rear crash tests on the P729 .
Several dealers across North America resultingly took advantage of this high demand and dramatically increased the markup on the vehicle ; some asked for as much as USD $ 17,000 retail price .
The MX-5 , with production code NA , was made available for delivery to buyers worldwide in the following dates : March 1989 in Japan ; May 1989 ( as a 1990 model ) in the US and Canada ; and 1990 in Europe .
The original MX-5 came with a 1.6 L dual overhead cam inline four-cylinder engine , producing 86 kW at 6,800 rpm , and 136 Nm of torque at 5,500 rpm .
Also , 1994 and 1995 were the only years in which Mazda offered a light metallic blue paint ( Laguna Blue Mica ) , making these cars rare collectors cars to some .
Japanese and US cars were fitted with an optional Torsen LSD , which was far more durable than the previous viscous differential .
There were a number of trim levels and special editions available , determined by local Mazda marketing departments .
The `` B Package '' added power windows , along with cruise control and headrest speakers , while the `` C Package '' included a tan interior and top and leather seats .
On certain markets , a gift set was also included , consisting of a 1/24 scale diecast model , two Seiko-branded wristwatches ( his and hers ) with matching blue faceplate and Miata logo , and metal keychain in the form of the Miata logo , all encased in a luxury blue velvet box .
There were some minor exterior changes , with a press-release of July 18 , 2000 , announcing the changes as `` resulting in an even sportier and more forceful look '' .
Added for top models ( designated ` Sport ' in the U.K ) were 16 in wheels with 205/45VR16 low-profile tires , larger brakes at the front and rear , additional chassis stiffening braces , a limited slip differential , a 6-speed manual gearbox , Bilstein suspension and leather seats .
The Shinsen ( Japanese for `` Fresh and New '' ) provided an intermediate step between the base model and the pricier LS .
Mazda MX-5 included 10-spoke 17-inch alloy wheels with a unique silver finish , front fog lights , chrome trims ( around the grille , headlamps and fog lights ) , body-coloured roll bars and a supporting strut brace .
Inside , the stainless steel scuff plate features a unique ' 20th Anniversary ' logo and limited edition number , premium ' 20th Anniversary ' branded floor mats , a body-coloured front dashboard , aluminium pedal set , and manual air-conditioning , leather steering wheel , gear knob and hand-brake ; MP3-compatible Radio/CD audio system with six speakers , steering wheel controls and an auxiliary ( AUX ) input jack for MP3 and iPod connection .
L engine and Sport Tech equipment package , inspired by the Mazda MX-5 GT race car , for UK market .
The Soft-top and Roadster Coupe included 5 and 6-speed manual transmissions respectively .
New features included using coordinated black and silver features to the respective soft top and power retractable hard top cars , more aggressive looking front face , a new luxury tan color interior option , improved control of the accelerator in the manual transmission models and brakes in all models , implementing Active Bonnet for pedestrian protection , weight reduction via re-designed front bumper , new 17-inch aluminum wheels and the internal wiring .
A new roadster will be made for Mazda and Alfa Romeo marques based on Mazda 's next-generation MX-5 rear-wheel-drive architecture .
Chase Osborn , a former governor , wrote , `` Michigan is unifying itself , and a magnificent new route through Michigan to Lake Superior and the Northwest United States is developing , via the Straits of Mackinac .
By 1928 , the ferry service had become so popular and so expensive to operate that Michigan Governor Fred Green ordered the department to study the feasibility of building Mackinac Bridge across the strait .
The road deck is shaped as an airfoil to provide lift in a cross wind , and the center two lanes are open grid to allow vertical ( upward ) air flow , which fairly precisely cancels the lift , making the roadway stable in design in winds of up to 150 mph .
: Two inside lanes : wide each : Catwalk , curb and rail width : on each side Five workers died during the construction of Mackinac Bridge .
The more expensive models in the ( short-lived ) Macintosh Centris line also used the 68040 , while the cheaper Quadra , Centris and Macintosh Performa used the 68LC040 .
Motorola 68040 thus included all of the functionality that previously required external chips , namely the FPU and Memory Management Unit ( MMU ) , which was added in the 68030 .
The 68EC040 was used in Cisco switch Supervisor Engine I that is the heart of models 2900 , 2948G , 2980G , 4000 , 4500 , 5000 , 5500 , 6000 , 6500 and 7600 .
According to Motorola 's errata , any chip with a mask set 2E71M or later does not contain the bug .
There is an LC ( Low-Cost ) version , without an FPU and EC ( Embedded Controller ) , without MMU and FPU .
Against the Pentium , Motorola 68060 could perform better on mixed code , Pentium 's decoder could not issue an FP instruction every opportunity and hence the FPU was not superscalar as the ALUs were .
For example , the Motorola 68010 ( and the obscure 68012 ) was a 68000 with improvements to the loop instruction and the ability to suspend then continue an instruction in the event of a page fault , enabling the use of virtual memory with the appropriate MMU hardware .
Similarly , the Motorola 68030 was a process improvement on the 68020 with the MMU and a small data cache ( 256 bytes ) moved on-chip .
This is because the Z80 combines two full ( but short ) clock cycles into a relatively long memory access period compared to the clock , while the more asynchronous Motorola 6809 instead has relatively short memory access times : depending on version and speed grade , approximately 60 % of a single clock cycle was typically available for memory access in a 6809 ( see data sheets ) .
In support of this philosophy , many Wiccans cite the Charge of the Goddess , which says `` All acts of Love and Pleasure are My rituals '' .
In addition , since Wicca focuses on the importance of male-female polarities , LGBT topics and Wicca acceptance of homosexuals is focused on the view that homosexual individuals embody ( spiritually ) aspects of both polarities .
Historically , the Christian church and lay-people have believed that more women than men are involved in paganism and witchcraft , which can be seen as far back as 1487 with the printing of the Malleus Maleficarum Several modern authors of Wiccan books state that , in current Wicca , the situation is the same .
Since the nineteen eighties , a number of all-male or `` Mithraic '' circles have been formed .
The Brotherhood and Sisterhood are oath-bound , initiatory mystery religions which use a ritual framework descended from Gardnerian Wicca .
The Brotherhood of the Phoenix was founded in the summer of 2004 by seven gay men from diverse traditions such as ceremonial magic , shamanism , and pre-Gardnerian witchcraft in order to create an ecumenical Neopagan tradition which serves the community of men who love men .
To impart this principle , LGBT topics and Wicca hold public rituals near the eight common holidays of Neopagan tradition where LGBT topics and Wicca celebrate the embodiment of the gay male divine through the life-cycle of human experience .
Some refer to one 's nationality as their race or ethnicity ; this often categorizes people of similar skin color into the same nation that others do not perceived to exist .
Instead , now the idea of an established government and physical boundaries also shaped what Nation meant to be a nation .
The name `` Sepedi '' thus refers specifically to the language of the Pedi people , while `` Northern Sotho '' refers to the official language of that name and to all the speech varieties Northern Sotho language has been taken to cover .
Apart from Sepedi Northern Sotho language , the other languages or dialects covered by the term `` Northern Sotho '' appear to be a diverse grouping of communal speech-forms within the Sotho-Tswana group .
Maho ( 2002 ) leaves Phalaborwa and the `` East Sotho '' varieties of Kutswe , Pai , and Pulana unclassified within Sotho -- Tswana .
Northern Sotho language is a designation in English , rendered officially and among indigenous speakers as Sesotho sa Leboa .
Rockne , like much of the public , thought little of pro football and expected an easy win .
The game , which the Giants lost in overtime 23 -- 17 , is often called `` The Greatest Game Ever Played '' and is considered one of the most important events in furthering the NFL 's popularity .
After clinching the top seed in the NFC , the Giants defeated the 49ers 49 -- 3 in the divisional round of the NFC playoffs and the Redskins 17 -- 0 in the NFC championship game , advancing to their first Super Bowl , Super Bowl XXI , against the Denver Broncos at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena .
Collins was the first -- ever draft choice of the expansion Carolina Panthers in 1995 , and led the Panthers to the NFC Championship game in his second season .
On December 27 , the Giants lost to the Carolina Panthers 41 -- 9 in their final game at Giants Stadium , and were eliminated from playoff eligibility .
The Giants defense finished 13th overall under Sheridan , giving up 324.9 yards per game , and the final two losses of the season against Carolina and Minnesota , in which the Giants gave up 85 points , ultimately led to the firing .
QB Eli Manning , DE Jason Pierre-Paul , WR Victor Cruz , and G Chris Snee represented the Giants at the Pro Bowl .
The Giants ' logos include several incarnations of a giant quarterback preparing to throw a football , a lowercase `` ny '' , and stylized versions of the team nickname .
( The Giants , along with the Pittsburgh Steelers , are one of only two teams in the National Football League to have the players ' uniform numbers on the front and back of the helmets .
The Giants have had a long and , at times , turbulent financial history .
After their struggles in the latter half of the 1960s and the entire 1970s , the Giants hired an outsider , George Young , to run the football operations for the first time in franchise history .
The rivalry between New York Giants and the Philadelphia Eagles is one of the oldest in the NFL , dating all the way back to 1933 .
In the 1980s the Giants and Redskins clashed as both struggled against each other for division titles and even Super Bowl Championships .
Wellington Mara always felt this was the Giants oldest and truest rival and after passing away in 2005 the Giants honored their longtime owner by defeating the Redskins 36 -- 0 at home .
The rivalry is unique among professional sports as New York Giants is the only divisional rivalry between sports teams from New York City and Dallas , partially due to the large distance between the two cities .
Since the two teams play each other so infrequently in the regular season , some , including players on both teams , have questioned whether the Giants and Jets have a real rivalry .
Tim Mara , Mel Hein , Pete Henry , Cal Hubbard and Jim Thorpe were a part of the original class of inductees in 1963 , while coach Bill Parcells , the most recent Giant inducted , was a part of the Class of 2013 .
Beginning in 2012 , the Giants became WFAN 's top priority during the entire football season ; prior to that , games that conflicted with late season New York Mets baseball games in September and early October were moved to other CBS Radio owned stations .
As Giants players retired to the broadcast booth in the early and 1960s , first Pat Summerall , then Frank Gifford took the color analyst slot next to Schenkel .
Giants regular-season Sunday telecasts moved to Fox when that network took over NFC telecasts in 1994 and are carried locally by WNYW .
Ahmad Shah Massoud ( Aḥmad Šāh Masʻūd ; 1953 -- 2001 ) was a political and military leader in Afghanistan .
Ahmad Shah Massoud was a central figure in the resistance against the Soviet occupation between 1979 and 1989 and in the following years of civil war .
Between 1980 and 1985 , these offensives were conducted twice a year .
To compensate for this deficiency , Ahmad Shah Massoud relied on revenues drawn from exports of emeralds and lapis lazuli , that are traditionally exploited in Northern Afghanistan .
The Panjshir was divided into 22 bases ( qarargah ) governed by a military commander and a civilian administrator , and each had a judge , a prosecutor and a public defender .
Part of the reason was that it permitted its funding and arms distribution to be administered by Pakistan , which favored the rival mujahideen leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar .
Others included two Heritage Foundation foreign policy analysts , Michael Johns and James A. Phillips , both of whom championed Ahmad Shah Massoud as the Afghan resistance leader most worthy of U.S. support under the Reagan Doctrine .
At that point Osama bin Laden , trying to mediate , urged Hekmatyar to `` go back with your brothers '' and to accept a compromise .
The creation of the Islamic State was welcomed by the General Assembly of the United Nations and the Islamic State of Afghanistan was recognized as the legitimate entity representing Afghanistan until June 2002 , when its successor , the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan , was established under the interim government of Hamid Karzai .
Shia Iran and Sunni Wahabbi Saudi Arabia , as competitors for regional hegemony , encouraged conflict between the Ittihad and Wahdat factions .
On the one side was the Shia Hazara Hezb-i Wahdat of Abdul Ali Mazari and on the other side , the Sunni Pashtun Ittihad-i Islami of Abdul Rasul Sayyaf .
Ahmad Shah Massoud Jamiat commanders , the interim government , and the International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) repeatedly tried to negotiate ceasefires , which broke down in only a few days .
Human Rights Watch , in a report based largely on the material collected by the Afghanistan Justice Project , concurs that Ahmad Shah Massoud Jamiat forces bear a share of the responsibility for human rights abuses throughout the war , including the indiscriminate targeting of civilians in Afshar , and that Ahmad Shah Massoud was personally implicated in some of these abuses .
Roy Gutman has argued that the witness reports about Afshar cited in the AJP report implicated only the Ittihad forces , and that these had not been under Ahmad Shah Massoud direct command .
Anthony Davis , who studied and observed Ahmad Shah Massoud forces from 1981 to 2001 , reported that during the observed period , there was `` no pattern of repeated killings of enemy civilians or military prisoners '' by Ahmad Shah Massoud forces .
A council led the foundation and a jury , consisting of impartial university lecturers , decided on the works of artists .
Both the Wahhabi Pashtun Ittehad-i Islami of Abdul Rasul Sayyaf backed by Saudi Arabia and the Shia Hazara Hezb-e Wahdat supported by Iran remained involved in heavy fighting against each other .
Hekmatyar , who was generally opposed to coalition government and struggled for undisputed power , had conflicts with other parties over the selection of cabinet members .
By the end of 1993 , however , Hekmatyar and the former communist general and militia leader , Abdul Rashid Dostum , were involved in secret negotiations encouraged by Pakistan 's secret Inter-Services Intelligence , Iran 's intelligence service , and Uzbekistan 's Karimov administration .
`` The first was to make sure that Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Massoud were not allowed to consolidate power , build a credible administration , or expand their territorial control , so that the country would remain divided into small fiefdoms , run by various Muajhideen leaders and local warlords or a council of such elements , with only some of them allied to Kabul .
The third was to make Kabul an unsafe city for representatives of the international community and to prevent the Rabbani government from attracting the international support needed to begin the post-war reconstruction of Afghanistan and generate a level of economic activity which would enhance its credibility and popularity '' .
Ahmad Shah Massoud , like most people in Afghanistan , saw this conference as a small hope for democracy and for free elections .
A nearly one-year siege and bombardment campaign against Kabul , however , was again defeated by Ahmad Shah Massoud forces .
This left the capital city Kabul `` wide open '' to many sides as Ismail Khan had been defeated to the west , Gulbuddin Hekmatyar had vacated Ahmad Shah Massoud positions to the south and the fall and surrender of Jalalabad had suddenly opened a new front to the east .
On September 26 , 1996 , as the Taliban with military support by Pakistan and financial support by Saudi Arabia prepared for another major offensive , Ahmad Shah Massoud ordered a full retreat from Kabul .
Besides meeting with Pashtun tribal leaders and acting as a point of reference , Abdul Haq received increasing numbers of Pashtun Taliban themselves who were secretly approaching Ahmad Shah Massoud .
That is why ... Ahmad Shah Massoud wanted to create a unity which could surpass the situation in which we found ourselves and still find ourselves to this day '' .
In 2005 Sediqa Massoud published a personal account on her life with Ahmad Shah Massoud ( co-authored by two women 's rights activists and friends of Sediqa Ahmad Shah Massoud , Chékéba Hachemi and Marie-Francoise Colombani ) called `` Pour l'amour de Ahmad Shah Massoud '' ( For the love of Ahmad Shah Massoud ) , in which she describes a decent and loving husband .
Ahmad Shah Massoud is a central figure in the resistance against the Soviet occupation between 1979 and 1989 and in the following years of civil war .
New Malden last cinema , the Odeon at Shannon Corner on the A3 has closed and been replaced by a large retail area including several large stores .
These are situated away from the High Street , which focuses more on smaller , more upmarket shops and restaurants .
Although formerly operated by the U.S. Navy and known as NAVSPASUR ( short for `` Naval Space Surveillance '' ) , command passed to the Air Force 20th Space Control Squadron on October 1 , 2004 .
Overhead imagery ( see coordinates given above ) of the Gila River and Jordan Lake sites suggests that the original design called for antennas of twice the present length with , presumably , greater radiated power .
In 2009 , the operations and maintenance contract for the day-to-day management and operation of the Fence was awarded to Five Rivers Services , LLC , based out of Colorado Springs , CO.
Air Force Space Surveillance System is intended to replace Air Force Space Surveillance System , or VHF Fence , that was transferred from the Navy to the Air Force in 2004 .
The February 10th , 2009 , collision of a U.S. Iridium communications satellite ( Iridium 33 ) and a Russian Cosmos 2251 communications satellite , which added hundreds more pieces of debris to the atmosphere , highlighted the need for more precise tracking of space objects .
The 1996 reauthorization also created the non-profit National Film Preservation Foundation , which is loosely affiliated with National Film Preservation Board , but the private-sector Foundation ( NFPF ) and federal Board ( NFPB ) are separate , legally distinct entities .
The nominative case ( abbreviated ) is one of the grammatical cases of a noun or other part of speech , which generally marks the subject of a verb or the predicate noun or predicate adjective , as opposed to Nominative case object or other verb arguments .
The reference form ( more technically , the least marked ) of certain parts of speech is normally in Nominative case , but this is often not a complete specification of the reference form , as it may also be necessary to specify the number and gender .
English still retains some Nominative case pronouns , which are contrasted with the accusative ( comparable to the oblique or disjunctive in some other languages ) : I ( accusative , me ) , we ( accusative , us ) , he ( accusative , him ) , she ( accusative , her ) , they ( accusative , them ) and who ( accusative , whom ) .
A special case is the word you : Originally , ye was Nominative case nominative form and you the accusative , but over time you has come to be used for the nominative as well .
The term `` nominative case '' is most properly used in the discussion of Nominative case -- accusative languages , such as Latin , Greek , and most modern Western European languages .
In active -- stative languages there is a case sometimes called Nominative case which is the most marked case and is used for the subject of a transitive verb or a voluntary subject of an intransitive verb but not for an involuntary subject of an intransitive verb ; since such languages are a relatively new field of study , there is no standard name for this case .
The name `` marinara sauce '' became a misnomenclature for napoli sauce or salsa Napolitana when Neapolitan sauce was the first tomato-based pasta sauce popularized in the US , followed by the explosion in popularity of Italian cuisine .
Atlantis ( in Greek , , `` island of Atlas '' ) is a legendary island first mentioned in Plato 's dialogues Timaeus and Critias , written about 360 BC .
Plato 's dialogues Timaeus and Critias , written in 360 BC , contain the earliest references to Atlantis .
The four persons appearing in those two dialogues are the politicians Critias and Hermocrates as well as the philosophers Socrates and Timaeus of Locri , although only Critias speaks of Atlantis .
Critias mentions an allegedly historical tale that would make the perfect example , and follows by describing Atlantis as is recorded in the Critias .
In his account , ancient Athens seems to represent the `` perfect society '' and Atlantis Atlantis opponent , representing the very antithesis of the `` perfect '' traits described in the Republic .
According to Critias , the Hellenic gods of old divided the land so that each god might own a lot ; Poseidon was appropriately , and to his liking , bequeathed the island of Atlantis .
The Egyptians , Plato asserted , described Atlantis as Atlantis comprising mostly mountains in the northern portions and along the shore , and encompassing a great plain of an oblong shape in the south `` extending in one direction three thousand stadia about 555 km ; 345 mi , but across the center inland it was two thousand stadia about 370 km ; 230 mi '' .
Atlas 's twin Gadeirus , or Eumelus in Greek , was given the extremity of Atlantis towards the pillars of Hercules .
The other four pairs of twins -- Ampheres and Evaemon , Mneseus and Autochthon , Elasippus and Mestor , and Azaes and Diaprepes -- were also given `` rule over many men , and a large territory '' .
The Athenians led an alliance of resistors against the Atlantean empire , and as the alliance disintegrated , prevailed alone against the empire , liberating the occupied lands .
But in the original , the sentence starts not with the name Crantor but with the ambiguous He , and whether this referred to Crantor or to Plato is the subject of considerable debate .
Proponents of both Atlantis as a myth and Atlantis as history have argued that the word refers to Crantor .
Another passage from Proclus ' commentary on the Timaeus gives a description of the geography of Atlantis : That an island of such nature and size once existed is evident from what is said by certain authors who investigated the things around the outer sea .
Plato 's account of Atlantis may have also inspired parodic imitation : writing only a few decades after the Timaeus and Critias , the historian Theopompus of Chios wrote of a land beyond the ocean known as Meropis .
He also believed that he had found connections between the Greek and Mayan languages , which produced a narrative of the destruction of Atlantis .
Donnelly drew parallels between creation stories in the Old and New Worlds , attributing the connections to Atlantis , where he believed existed the Biblical Garden of Eden .
She believed in a form of racial evolution ( as opposed to primate evolution ) , in which the Atlanteans were the fourth `` Root Race '' , succeeded by the fifth and most superior `` Aryan race '' ( her own race ) .
Rudolf Steiner , the founder of Anthroposophy and Waldorf Schools , along with other well known Theosophists , such as Annie Besant , also wrote of cultural evolution in much the same vein .
Similarly , Alfred Rosenberg ( in The Myth of the Twentieth Century , 1930 ) spoke of a `` Nordic-Atlantean '' or `` Aryan-Nordic '' master race .
As continental drift became more widely accepted during the 1960s , and the increased understanding of plate tectonics demonstrated the impossibility of a lost continent in the geologically recent past , most `` Lost Continent '' theories of Atlantis began to wane in popularity .
The Thera eruption , dated to the 17th or 16th century BC , caused a large tsunami that some experts hypothesize devastated the Minoan civilization on the nearby island of Crete , further leading some to believe that this may have been the catastrophe that inspired the story .
The team identified Atlantis possible location within the marshlands of the Doñana National Park , in the area that once was the Lacus Ligustinus , between the Huelva , Cádiz and Seville provinces , and speculated that Atlantis had been destroyed by a tsunami , extrapolating results from a previous study by Spanish researchers , published four years earlier .
NBC ( NBC ) is an American commercial broadcasting television network and former radio network headquartered in the GE Building in New York City 's Rockefeller Center with additional major offices near Los Angeles and in Chicago .
An RCA shareholder , Westinghouse , had a competing facility in Newark , New Jersey pioneer station WJZ ( no relation to the radio and TV station in Baltimore currently using those call letters ) , which also served as the flagship for NBC .
The Bell System , AT&T 's telephone utility , was developing technologies to transmit voice - and music-grade audio over short and long distances , using both wireless and wired methods .
In 1948 -- 49 , beginning with the nation 's top radio star , Jack Benny , many NBC performers ( including Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy , Burns and Allen and Frank Sinatra ) jumped to CBS .
Conductor Arturo Toscanini conducted ten television concerts on NBC between 1948 and 1952 .
NBC 's last major radio programming push , beginning June 12 , 1955 , was Monitor , a creation of NBC President Sylvester `` Pat '' Weaver , who also created the innovative NBC television programs Today Show , The Tonight Show , and Home .
After Monitor went off the air January 26 , 1975 , little remained of NBC network radio beyond hourly newscasts and news features , and The Eternal Light on Sunday mornings .
Beginning on June 18 , 1975 , NBC launched the NBC News and Information Service ( NIS ) , which provided up to 55 minutes of news per hour around the clock to local stations that wanted to adopt an all-news format .
GE acquired RCA in 1986 , and with NBC NBC , signaling the beginning of the end of NBC Radio .
By 1990 , the NBC Radio Network as an independent programming service was pretty much gone , becoming a brand name for content produced by Westwood One , and ultimately by , ironically , CBS Radio .
Most were wooed away by ABC , which was the number-one network during the late 1970s and early 1980s , while WBAL-TV and WRGB-TV went to CBS .
( KDKA-TV , which is now owned by CBS , infamously passed up affiliating with NBC after Westinghouse Electric bought the station from DuMont in 1954 , leading to an acrimonious relationship between NBC and Westinghouse for years afterward .
The stations in Baltimore , Dayton and Jacksonville , however , have since rejoined NBC .
, Silver Spoons , Knight Rider and Remington Steele , NBC biggest hit in this period was The A-Team , which , at tenth place , was the network 's only top-20 rated show of the 1982 -- 1983 season , and NBC reached third place the next year .
In 1984 , the huge success of The Cosby Show led to a renewed interest in sitcoms , while Family Ties and Cheers , both of which premiered in 1982 to mediocre ratings , saw their viewership increase from having Cosby as a lead-in .
NBC upswing continued through the decade with ALF , Amen , Matlock , L.A. Law , The Hogan Family , A Different World , Empty Nest , and In the Heat of the Night .
The inspiration for the block 's conception was the loosening of the Prime Time Access Rule , which had required that the 7:30 PM time slot be given back to the local stations ; and the relaxation of fin-syn rules , which had prevented the networks from setting up wings with programming from their own syndication units to fill the void .
By the mid-1990s , NBC 's sports division , headed by Dick Ebersol , had rights to three of the four major professional sports organizations ( NFL , Major League Baseball and NBA ) , the Olympics , and the national powerhouse Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team .
Sassa oversaw the development of such shows as The West Wing , , and Fear Factor .
No new primetime hits emerged in the 2008 -- 2009 season ( despite NBC 's rare good fortune to have both the Super Bowl and the Beijing Olympic Games in which to promote their new offerings ) , while Heroes and Deal or No Deal both collapsed in the ratings , and both have since been cancelled .
This led NBC News president Steve Capus to order the footage not to be shown without his permission and announcer Bob Costas to promise that the video would not be shown again during the Games .
When Conan O'Brien replaced Jay Leno as host of The Tonight Show in 2009 , the network gave Leno a new talk show , committing to air NBC every weeknight at 10:00 pm ET/PT ( 9:00 pm CT/MT ) , as an inexpensive comedic alternative to the procedurals and other one-hour dramas that typically air during that time slot .
This , however , caused considerable backlash , as O'Brien had not been given any choice or prior notification of the move .
However , with holding the new season of The Voice and benching Revolution until late March , NBC mid-season ratings suffered ; in February sweeps , NBC fell to fifth behind the Spanish-language network Univision .
NBC also aired the final four and a half years of Search for Tomorrow ( 1982 -- 1986 ) after that series was dropped by CBS , although many NBC affiliates did not air the show during that time .
Saved by the Bell , despite bad reviews from TV critics , would become one of the most popular teen series in television history as well as the number one series on Saturday mornings , dethroning The Bugs Bunny and Tweety Show in NBC first season .
Aside from simultaneous substitution ( a practice that requires paid-TV companies to switch the signal of an American station to a Canadian station when that network is syndicating a program on the American station to protect advertising revenues ) , the programming and broadcasting are the same as in the United States .
NBC Nightly News and The Tonight Show with Jay Leno , are shown on CNBC Europe .
NBC 's full program lineup is carried by local affiliate VSB-TV , received from NBC East Coast satellite feed and carried as-is live an hour later due to the island nation residing in the Atlantic Time Zone .
NBC is the 1st place network in the 18-49 demographic , boosted from the fall return of The Voice , the initial success of freshman drama Revolution and comedy Go On , and the continued success of Sunday Night Football .
Nociception is the afferent activity produced in the peripheral and central nervous systems by stimuli that have the potential to damage tissue .
The gate control theory of pain , proposed by Patrick David Wall and Ronald Melzack , postulates that nociception ( pain ) is `` gated '' by non-nociception stimuli such as vibration .
A nova ( plural or novas ) is a cataclysmic nuclear explosion in a white dwarf star .
While hydrogen fusion can occur in a stable manner on the surface of the white dwarf for a narrow range of accretion rates , for most binary system parameters the hydrogen burning is thermally unstable and rapidly converts a large amount of the hydrogen into other heavier elements in a runaway reaction , liberating an enormous amount of energy , blowing the remaining gases away from the white dwarf 's surface and producing an extremely bright outburst of light .
The rise to peak brightness can be very rapid or gradual and is related to the speed class of Nova ; after the peak , the brightness declines steadily .
The time taken for a nova to decay by 2 or 3 magnitudes from maximum optical brightness is used to classify a nova via Nova speed class .
The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams ( CBAT ) tracks novae in M31 , M33 , and M81 .
The only countries known to have detonated nuclear weapons -- and that acknowledge possessing such weapons -- are ( chronologically by date of first test ) the United States , the Soviet Union ( succeeded as Nuclear weapon by Russia ) , the United Kingdom , France , the People 's Republic of China , India , Pakistan , and North Korea .
In fission weapons , a mass of fissile material ( enriched uranium or plutonium ) is assembled into a supercritical mass -- the amount of material needed to start an exponentially growing nuclear chain reaction -- either by shooting one piece of sub-critical material into another ( the `` gun '' method ) or by compressing a sub-critical sphere of material using chemical explosives to many times Nuclear weapon original density ( the `` implosion '' method ) .
Such fusion weapons are generally referred to as thermonuclear weapons or more colloquially as hydrogen bombs ( abbreviated as H-bombs ) , as Nuclear weapon rely on fusion reactions between isotopes of hydrogen ( deuterium and tritium ) .
This is because a fission weapon is required as a `` trigger '' for the fusion reactions , and the fusion reactions can themselves trigger additional fission reactions .
In the Teller-Ulam design , which accounts for all multi-megaton yield hydrogen bombs , this is accomplished by placing a fission bomb and fusion fuel ( tritium , deuterium , or lithium deuteride ) in proximity within a special , radiation-reflecting container .
Surrounding Nuclear weapon with suitable materials ( such as cobalt or gold ) creates a weapon known as a salted bomb .
Additionally , development and maintenance of delivery options is among the most resource-intensive aspects of a nuclear weapons program : according to one estimate , deployment costs accounted for 57 % of the total financial resources spent by the United States in relation to nuclear weapons since 1940 .
Historically the first method of delivery , and the method used in the two nuclear weapons used in warfare , was as a gravity bomb , dropped from bomber aircraft .
This is usually the first method that countries developed , as Nuclear weapon does not place many restrictions on the size of the weapon and weapon miniaturization requires considerable weapons design knowledge .
Nuclear weapon does , however , limit attack range , response time to an impending attack , and the number of weapons that a country can field at the same time .
While even short range missiles allow for a faster and less vulnerable attack , the development of long-range intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) and submarine-launched ballistic missiles ( SLBMs ) has given some nations the ability to plausibly deliver missiles anywhere on the globe with a high likelihood of success .
The former Soviet republics of Belarus , Kazakhstan , and Ukraine returned Soviet nuclear arms stationed in their countries to Russia after the collapse of the USSR .
In January 2010 , Lawrence M. Krauss stated that `` no issue carries more importance to the long-term health and security of humanity than the effort to reduce , and perhaps one day , rid the world of Nuclear weapon '' .
In the years after the end of the Cold War , there have been numerous campaigns to urge the abolition of Nuclear weapon , such as that organized by the Global Zero movement , and the goal of a `` world without Nuclear weapon '' was advocated by United States President Barack Obama in an April 2009 speech in Prague .
During a 2010 lecture at the University of Missouri , which was broadcast by C-Span , Dr. Mueller has also argued that the threat from Nuclear weapon , by terrorists and governments alike , has been exaggerated , both in the popular media and by officials .
These included one 30 kiloton explosion being used to close the Uzbekistan Urtabulak gas well in 1966 that had been blowing since 1963 , and a few months later a 47 kiloton explosive was used to seal a higher pressure blowout at the nearby Pamuk gas field .
The discovery and synthesis of new chemical elements by nuclear transmutation , and their production in the necessary quantities to allow the studying of their properties , was carried out in nuclear explosive device testing .
For example , the discovery of the short lived einsteinium and fermium , both created under the intense neutron environment within thermonuclear explosions , followed the first Teller-Ulam thermonuclear device test - Ivy Mike .
Both climatology and particularly aerosol science , a subfield of atmospheric science , were largely created to answer the question of how far and wide fallout would travel .
A proposed means of averting an asteroid impacting with earth , assuming low lead times between detection and earth impact , is to detonate a series of nuclear explosive devices in proximity to the asteroid , far enough away as not to fracture the object .
However if the need arises to use a nuclear explosive devices to deflect an asteroid , Nuclear weapon may face the legal issue that presently the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space , and the 1996 Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty technically bans nuclear weapons in space , leaving no caveats for peaceful uses .
Nathaniel Hawthorne ( born Nathaniel Hathorne ; July 4 , 1804 -- May 19 , 1864 ) was an American novelist and short story writer .
William 's son and the author 's great-great-grandfather , John Hathorne , was one of the judges who oversaw the Salem witch trials .
After Nathaniel Hawthorne death , young Nathaniel , Nathaniel Hawthorne mother and two sisters moved in with maternal relatives , the Mannings , in Salem , where they lived for 10 years .
In the summer of 1816 , the family lived as boarders with farmers before moving to a home recently built specifically for them by Hawthorne 's uncles Richard and Robert Manning in Raymond , Maine , near Sebago Lake .
Years later , Hawthorne looked back at Nathaniel Hawthorne time in Maine fondly : `` Those were delightful days , for that part of the country was wild then , with only scattered clearings , and nine tenths of it primeval woods '' .
Nathaniel Hawthorne contributed short stories , including `` Young Goodman Brown '' and `` The Minister 's Black Veil '' , to various magazines and annuals , though none drew major attention to the author .
In the biography , Hawthorne depicted Pierce as a statesman and soldier who had accomplished no great feats because of Nathaniel Hawthorne need to make `` little noise '' and so `` withdrew into the background '' .
Nathaniel Hawthorne tone is singularly effective -- wild , plaintive , thoughtful , and in full accordance with Nathaniel Hawthorne themes ... We look upon Nathaniel Hawthorne as one of the few men of indisputable genius to whom our country has as yet given birth .
Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote that `` Nathaniel Hawthorne 's reputation as a writer is a very pleasing fact , because Nathaniel Hawthorne writing is not good for anything , and this is a tribute to the man '' .
Contemporary response to Hawthorne 's work praised Nathaniel Hawthorne sentimentality and moral purity while more modern evaluations focus on the dark psychological complexity .
The critic Harold Bloom has opined that only Henry James and William Faulkner challenge Hawthorne 's position as the greatest American novelist , although Nathaniel Hawthorne admits that Nathaniel Hawthorne favours James as the greatest American novelist .
Zāhir ud-Dīn Mohammad Bābur , who founded the Mughal dynasty of South Asia kept a journal Bāburnāma ( Chagatai / ; literally : `` Book of Babur '' or `` Letters of Babur '' ) which was written between 1493 and 1529 .
The English Civil War ( 1642 -- 1651 ) provoked a number of examples of this genre , including works by Sir Edmund Ludlow and Sir John Reresby .
Following the trend of Romanticism , which greatly emphasised the role and the nature of the individual , and in the footsteps of Jean-Jacques Rousseau 's Confessions , a more intimate form of autobiography , exploring the subject 's emotions , came into fashion .
With the rise of education , cheap newspapers and cheap printing , modern concepts of fame and celebrity began to develop , and the beneficiaries of this were not slow to cash in on this by producing autobiographies .
Some sensationalist autobiographies such as James Frey 's `` A Million Little Pieces '' have been publicly exposed as having embellished or fictionalized significant details of the authors ' lives .
Notable examples of are Campaign ( Auto ) biographies such as Andrew Jackson 's , which purposefully attempt to influence an audience 's opinion by omitting potentially negative characteristics or experiences .
The author re-frames his or her life as a demonstration of divine intention through encounters with the Divine .
The term `` fictional autobiography '' signifies novels about a fictional character written as though the character were writing their own autobiography , meaning that the character is the first-person narrator and that the novel addresses both internal and external experiences of the character .
Concerned with the large Christian influence in southern Japan , as well as the active and what was perceived as the arrogant role the Jesuits were playing in the Japanese political arena , Hideyoshi ordered the expulsion of all missionaries , and placed Nagasaki under his direct control .
Once Osaka Castle had been taken and Toyotomi Hideyoshi 's offspring killed , though , the Tokugawa dominance was assured .
Catholicism 's last gasp as an open religion , and the last major military action in Japan until the Meiji Restoration , was the Shimabara Rebellion of 1637 .
On August 9 , 1945 , Nagasaki was the target of the United States ' second atomic bomb attack ( and the second detonation of a plutonium bomb ; the first was tested in central New Mexico , USA ) at 11:02 a.m. , when the north of the city was destroyed in less than a second , and an estimated 70,000 people were killed by the bomb codenamed `` Fat Man '' .
`` Nagasaki '' is the title and subject of a 1928 song with music by Harry Warren and lyrics by Mort Dixon .
Nagasaki is a center of Portuguese and other European peoples ' influence in the 16th .
Nagasaki is the target of the United States ' second atomic bomb attack ( and the second detonation of a plutonium bomb ; the first was tested in central New Mexico , USA ) at 11:02 a.m. , when the north of the city was destroyed in less than a second , and an estimated 70,000 people were killed by the bomb codenamed `` Fat Man '' .
Besides the city wall , other famous Ming-era structures in Nanjing included the famous Ming Xiaoling Mausoleum and Porcelain Tower , although the latter was destroyed by the Taipings in the 19th century .
A monument to the huge human cost of some of the gigantic construction projects of the early Ming is the Yangshan Quarry ( located some east of the walled city an Ming Xiaoling ) , where a gigantic stele , cut on the orders of the Yongle Emperor , lies abandoned , just as it was left 600 years ago when it was understood it was impossible to move or erect Nanjing .
After the fall of Beijing to the Li Zicheng 's rebels and then to Manchu Qing invaders , and the suicide of the last `` real '' Ming emperor Zhu Youjian ( the Chongzhen Emperor ) in the spring 1644 , the Ming prince Zhu Yousong was enthroned in Nanjing in June 1644 as the Hongguang Emperor .
The Xinhai Revolution led to the founding of the Republic of China in January 1912 with Dr. Sun Yat-sen as the first provisional president and Nanjing was selected as its new capital .
In 1927 , the Kuomintang ( KMT ) under Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek again established Nanjing as the capital of the Republic of China , and this became internationally recognized once KMT forces took Beijing in 1928 .
Approximately 20,000 cases occurred within Nanjing during the first month of the occupation ... The total number of civilians and prisoners of war murdered in Nanjing during the six weeks was over 200,000 .
The 200,000 number was mostly based on the records of several humanitarian and charity organizations who buried the remaining bodies a week to four months after the massacres began .
From the verdict , the 200,000 number did not include victims whose bodies were disposed by Japanese ( as was common in the early stages of the massacre ) or by individuals Chinese other than the charities groups , nor did Nanjing include those who were massacred after the first six weeks .
Adding the people murdered in smaller scale killings and whose bodies had been buried by other people , over 300,000 Chinese were massacred in Nanjing .
Nanjing is 300 km west-northwest of Shanghai , 1200 km south-southeast of Beijing , and 1400 km east-northeast of Chongqing .
Nanjing is also vying for foreign investment against neighboring cities in the Yangtze River Delta , and so far a number of famous multinational firms , such as Volkswagen Group , Iveco , A.O. Smith , and Sharp , have established their lines there .
Nanjing now has four bridge or tunnel crossings spanning the Yangtze , which are tying districts north of the river with the city centre on the south bank .
Nanjing serves as rail junction for the Beijing-Shanghai ( Jinghu ) ( which is itself composed of the old Jinpu and Huning Railways ) , Nanjing -- Tongling ( Ningtong ) , Nanjing-Qidong ( Ningqi ) , and the Nanjing-Xian ( Ningxi ) which encompasses the Hefei -- Nanjing Railway .
Nanjing South Railway Station , which is one of the 5 hub stations on Beijing-Shanghai High-Speed Railway , has officially been claimed as the largest railway station in Asia and the second largest in the world in terms of GFA ( Gross Floor Area ) .
As an important regional hub in the Yangtze River Delta , Nanjing is well-connected by over 60 state and provincial highways to all parts of China .
The bus network , which is currently run by five companies ( Nanjing Gongjiao , Zhongbei , Argos , Xincheng and Xinningpu ) , provides more than 370 routes covering all parts of Nanjing and suburban areas .
Nanjing airport , Lukou International Airport , serves both national and international flights .
Nanjing was ranked 14th among 126 civil airports in China in terms of yearly passenger transport , and 10th for yearly cargo transport .
The annual International Plum Blossom Festival held in Plum Blossom Hill , the largest plum collection in China , attracts thousands of tourists both domestically and internationally .
Nanjing is Tianjing ( , `` Heavenly Capital '' or `` Capital of Heaven '' ) Both the Qing Viceroy and the Taiping king resided in buildings that would later be known as the Presidential Palace .
In 1960 , the discovery , cataloguing , and forensic investigation of local mass murder sites began in an effort to gain knowledge regarding the scope of these crimes .
Ninth Fort reads , `` This is the place where Nazis and their assistants killed more than 30,000 Jews from Lithuania and other European countries '' .
On April 11 , 2011 , the memorial to the victims of Nazism was vandalized - The memorial tombstones were knocked down , and white swastikas were sprayed on the memorial .
The name Nostratic languages derives from the Latin word nostrās , meaning ` our fellow-countryman ' ( plural : nostrates ) and has been defined , since Pedersen , as consisting of those language families that are related to Indo-European .
Merritt Ruhlen notes that this definition is not properly taxonomic but amorphous , since there are broader and narrower degrees of relatedness , and moreover , some linguists who broadly accept the concept ( such as Greenberg and Ruhlen himself ) have criticised the name as reflecting the ethnocentrism frequent among Europeans at the time .
Proposed alternative names such as Mitian , formed from the characteristic Nostratic languages first - and second-person pronouns mi ` I ' and ti ` you ' ( exactly ` thou ' ) , have not attained the same currency .
An early supporter was the French linguist Albert Cuny -- better known for his role in the development of the laryngeal theory -- who published his Recherches sur le vocalisme , le consonantisme et la formation des racines en `` nostratique '' , ancêtre de l'indo-européen et du chamito-sémitique ( ` Researches on the Vocalism , Consonantism , and Formation of Roots in `` Nostratic languages '' , Ancestor of Indo-European and Hamito-Semitic ' ) in 1943 .
In the interim , the view had taken hold that the comparative method -- previously used as a means of studying languages already known to be related and without any thought of classification -- is the most effective means to establish genetic relationship , eventually hardening into the conviction that it is the only legitimate means to do so .
Following Pedersen , Illich-Svitych , and Dolgopolsky , most advocates of the theory have included Afroasiatic , though criticisms by Joseph Greenberg and others from the late 1980s onward suggested a reassessment of this position .
The Sumerian and Etruscan languages , usually regarded as language isolates , are thought by some to be Nostratic languages as well .
Similarly , Georgiy Starostin ( 2002 ) arrives at a tripartite overall grouping : he considers Afroasiatic , Nostratic languages and Elamite to be roughly equidistant and more closely related to each other than to anything else .
Nostratic languages has been proposed that the broad spectrum revolution of Kent Flannery ( 1969 ) , associated with microliths , the use of the bow and arrow , and the domestication of the dog , all of which are associated with these cultures , may have been the cultural `` motor '' that led to Nostratic languages expansion .
Bomhard ( 2008 ) suggests a differentiation of Nostratic languages by 8,000 BCE , the beginning of the Neolithic Revolution in the Levant , over a territory spanning the entire Fertile Crescent and beyond into the Caucasus ( Proto-Kartvelian ) , Egypt and along the Red Sea to the Horn of Africa ( Proto-Afroasiatic ) , the Iranian Plateau ( Proto-Elamo-Dravidian ) and into Central Asia ( Proto-Eurasiatic , to be further subdivided by 5,000 BCE into Proto-Indo-European , Proto-Uralic and Proto-Altaic ) .
The phonemes tabulated below are commonly reconstructed for the Nostratic languages language ( Kaiser and Shevoroshkin 1988 ) .
To correct this anomaly , linguists such as Manaster Ramer and Bomhard have proposed to correlate Nostratic languages voiceless and glottalized stops with PIE ones , so this is done in the table .
Because linguists working on Proto-Indo-European , Proto-Uralic , and Proto-Dravidian do not usually use the IPA , the transcriptions used in those fields are also given where the letters differ from the IPA symbols .
The exact values of the phoneme '' '' in Proto-Afroasiatic and Proto-Dravidian are unknown .
The following correspondences ( slightly modified to account for the reconstruction of Proto-Altaic by Starostin et al. 2003 ) have been suggested by Kaiser and Shevoroshkin ( 1988 ) .
pronoun According to Dolgopolsky Proto-Nostratic language had analytic structure , which he argues by diverging of post - and prepositions of auxiliary words in descendant languages.Word order was subject -- object -- verb when the subject was a noun , and object -- verb -- subject when Nostratic languages was a pronoun .
For space reasons , Etruscan is not included , but the fact that Nostratic languages had / mi / ` I ' and / mini / ` me ' seems to fit the pattern reconstructed for Proto-Nostratic ideally , leading some to argue that the Aegean or Tyrsenian languages were yet another Nostratic branch .
A namespace in computer science ( sometimes also called a name scope ) , is an abstract container or environment created to hold a logical grouping of unique identifiers or symbols ( i.e. , names ) .
That is , the meaning associated with an identifier defined in one namespace may or may not have the same meaning as the same identifier defined in another namespace .
Nahum book comes in chronological order between Micah and Habakkuk in the Bible .
Nahum wrote about the end of the Assyrian Empire , and its capital city , Nineveh , in a vivid poetic style .
Nahum name means `` comforter , '' and Nahum was from the town of Alqosh , ( Nah 1:1 ) which scholars have attempted to identify with several cities , including the modern ` Alqush of Assyria and Capharnaum of northern Galilee .
The Reformation theologian Calvin argued , Nahum painted God by which Nahum nature must be seen , and `` it is from that most memorable vision , when God appeared to Moses after the breaking of the tables '' .
A team of US/UK construction engineers , led by Huw Thomas , is currently planning ways to save the building and the tomb .
Still others blend elements of both and there is also a Scottish influence on the dialects - while the Scottish came in smaller numbers than the English and Irish , they had a large influence on Newfoundland society .
The greatest distinction between Newfoundland English and General Canadian English is Newfoundland English vocabulary .
Like many regional dialects , Newfoundland dialect has been unfairly discriminated against as sounding improper or uneducated , because Newfoundland English lacks a privileged position in Newfoundland English country .
This manner of using language can be readily observed in socially marginalized populations including persons of African descent in the United States , and persons of African descent from rural areas .
Also pervasive as a sentence ending is right used in the same manner as the Canadian eh or the American huh or y' know .
Although it is referred to as `` Newfoundland English '' or `` Newfinese '' , Newfoundland is not the only place which uses this dialect .
The southern coast of Labrador ( the nearest point of Labrador to Newfoundland ) and an area near the Labrador border , the Basse-Côte-Nord of Quebec , also use this form of speaking .
It is also common to hear Newfoundland English in Yellowknife , Southern Alberta and Fort McMurray , Alberta , places to which many Newfoundlanders have moved or commute regularly for employment .
With the emergence of nationalist sentiment from the late 18th century the desire was felt to display National flag also in civilian contexts , notably the US flag , in origin adopted as a naval ensign in 1777 , which after the American Revolution began to be displayed as a generic symbol of the United States , and the French Tricolore which became a symbol of the Republic in the 1790s .
War flags ( also called military flags ) are used by military organizations such as Armies , Marine Corps , or Air Forces .
In practice , many countries ( such as the United States and the United Kingdom ) have identical flags for these three purposes ; national flag is sometimes used as a vexillological term to refer to National flag .
In the case of aircraft , those flags are usually painted on , and those are usually to be painted on in the position as if National flag were blowing in the wind .
Blue , white , and red is a common combination in Slavic countries such as the Czech Republic , Slovakia , Russia , Serbia , Slovenia , and Croatia as well as among Western nations including Australia , France , Iceland , Norway , New Zealand , the United Kingdom , the Netherlands and the United States of America .
For example , the flags of Venezuela , of Colombia , and of Ecuador all use variants of the flag of Gran Colombia , the country they composed upon their independence from Spain , created by the Venezuelan independence hero Francisco de Miranda ; and the flags of Egypt , of Iraq , of Syria , and of Yemen are all highly similar variants of the flag of the Arab revolt of 1916 -- 1918 .
Moldova adopted National flag during the declaration of independence from the USSR in 1991 ( and was used in various demonstrations and revolts by the population ) and later the Moldovan coat of arms ( which is part of the Romanian coat of arms ) was placed in the center of National flag .
The Nordic countries all have the same design ( Iceland , Denmark , Norway , Sweden , Finland , in addition to the autonomous regions of the Faroe Islands and Åland ) , a horizontal cross on a single-colored background .
The only differences between these flags is that National flag has the Commonwealth Star below the canton , and that on the New Zealand flag , just four stars in the Southern Cross are presented , and they are five-pointed red stars with white borders .
Some similarities to the United States flag with the red and white stripes are noted as well such as the flag of Malaysia and the flag of Liberia , the latter of which was an American resettlement colony .
A general rule is that National flag should be flown in the position of honor , and not in an inferior position to any other flag ( although some countries make an exception for royal standards ) .
National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs , of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Realizing the league constitution left National Hockey League unable to force Livingstone out , the four teams voted instead to suspend the NHA , and on November 26 , 1917 , formed the National Hockey League .
The Chicago Black Hawks and Detroit Cougars ( later Red Wings ) were also added after National Hockey League purchased the assets of the defunct WCHL .
He returned to lead the Canadiens to five consecutive titles between 1956 and 1960 , a record no team has matched .
By the mid-1960s , the desire for a network television contract in the U.S. , and concerns that the Western Hockey League was planning to declare National Hockey League a major league and challenge for the Stanley Cup , spurred the NHL to undertake National Hockey League first expansion since the 1920s .
Two years later , the emergence of the newly founded World Hockey Association ( WHA ) led the league to add the New York Islanders and Atlanta Flames to keep the rival league out of those markets .
The goaltender can play the puck only within the trapezoid or in front of the goal line ; if the goaltender plays the puck behind the goal line and outside the trapezoidal area , a two-minute minor penalty for delay of game is assessed by the referees .
The policy provides for a 20 game suspension for a first positive test , a 60 game suspension for a second positive test , and a lifetime suspension for a third positive test .
The first round of the playoffs , or conference quarter-finals , consists of the first seed playing the eighth seed , the second playing the seventh , third playing the sixth , and the fourth playing the fifth .
The longest streak of winning the Stanley Cup in consecutive years is five , held by the Montreal Canadiens from 1955 -- 56 to 1959 -- 60 ; the New York Islanders ( 1980 -- 1983 ) and the Montreal Canadiens ( 1976 -- 1979 ) have four-year championship streaks .
The current organization has roots in the 1998 -- 99 season when a league realignment added two divisions to bring the total number of divisions to six ; the current team alignment began with the 2000 -- 01 season when the Minnesota Wild and the Columbus Blue Jackets joined the league as expansion teams .
The James Norris Memorial Trophy is awarded annually to National Hockey League top defenceman , the Calder Memorial Trophy is awarded annually to the top rookie , and the Lady Byng Memorial Trophy is awarded to the player deemed to combine the highest degree of skill and sportsmanship ; all three of these awards are voted on by members of the Professional Hockey Writers Association .
The Stanley Cup , much like National Hockey League CFL counterpart , is unique in this aspect , as opposed to the Vince Lombardi Trophy , Larry O'Brien Trophy , and Commissioner 's Trophy , which have new ones made every year for that year 's champion .
The top goaltenders ( by wins ) were Niklas Backstrom ( 24 ) , Henrik Lundqvist ( 24 ) , Antti Niemi ( 24 ) , Marc-Andre Fleury ( 23 ) , and Evgeni Nabokov ( 23 ) .
European players were drafted and signed by NHL teams in an effort to bring in more `` skilled offensive players '' , although recently there has been a decline in European players as more American players enter the league .
Coverage of the first three rounds of the playoffs is split between CBC and TSN .
Sportsnet holds regional broadcasting rights to five of the National Hockey League Canadian franchises , while the regional rights for the Montreal Canadiens and Winnipeg Jets are held by TSN , who airs those two clubs ' games on regional part-time channels .
CTV Specialty Television and Insight Sports are both minority owners of the Canadian version , while NBCUniversal is a minority owner of the American version .
Outside of Canada and the United States , NHL games are broadcast across Europe ( excluding the UK and Scandinavia ) and the Middle East on ESPN America , which takes feeds from CBC , NBC , NBCSN , TSN and teams ' regional broadcasts .
A study done by the Stanford Graduate School of Business in 2004 , found that NHL fans in America were the most educated and affluent of the four major leagues .
These improvements led NBC and the cable channel Versus to sign a shared ten-year broadcast deal ( as their parent companies were merging ) , paying $ 200 million per year for both American cable and broadcast rights ; the deal will lead to further increases in television coverage on the NBC channels .
The 2010 Stanley Cup play-offs saw the largest audience in the history of the sport `` after a regular season that saw record-breaking business success , propelled in large part by National Hockey League strategy of engaging fans through big events and robust digital offerings '' .
The original 20 acre campus-site at the corner of Presque Isle and Kaye Avenues was on land donated by local businessman and philanthropist John M. Longyear , whose namesake academic building , Longyear Hall , opened its doors to students in 1900 .
Since 2002 , most of the campus and surrounding city is covered by a wireless network .
The winner of the annual football game between NMU and Michigan Tech is awarded the Miner 's Cup .
One student from up campus ( 2 halls ) and two from down campus ( 8 halls ) are elected to serve on ASNMU , NMU 's Student Government .
Unique to Northern , this citizen-leader development program is open to all NMU students , regardless of GPA , major or year in school .
The last and final factor to arise is right liberation .
Noble Eightfold Path is the right way of looking at life , nature , and the world as Noble Eightfold Path really are for us .
`` Wrong view '' arising from ignorance ( avijja ) , is the precondition for wrong intention , wrong speech , wrong action , wrong livelihood , wrong effort , wrong mindfulness and wrong concentration .
Noble Eightfold Path is the right way of looking at life , nature , and the world as they really are for us .
In many countries , including Indonesia , the Netherlands , and the UK , National park do not adhere to the IUCN definition , while some areas which adhere to the IUCN definition are not designated as National park .
In 1835 , the English poet William Wordsworth described the Lake District as a The painter George Catlin , in his travels through the American West , wrote during the 1830s that the Native Americans in the United States might be preserved The first effort by any government to set aside such protected lands was in the United States , on April 20 , 1832 , when President Andrew Jackson signed legislation that the 22nd United States Congress had enacted to set aside four sections of land around what is now Hot Springs , Arkansas , to protect the natural , thermal springs and adjoining mountainsides for the future disposal of the U.S. government .
Even with the creation of Yellowstone , Yosemite , and nearly 37 other national parks and monuments , another 44 years passed before an agency was created in the United States to administer these units in a comprehensive way -- the U.S. National Park Service ( NPS ) .
This national park is the first major global park to have no separate warden and protection staff -- all of National park management being done through existing local authorities , allowing a lower cost basis and a larger geographical coverage ( in 1989 when created , National park was the largest protected area in Asia ) .
A Papal Nuncio ( officially known as an Nuncio ) is a permanent diplomatic representative ( head of diplomatic mission ) of the Holy See to a state or international organization ( e.g. , the Arab League ) , having the rank of an ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary , usually with the ecclesiastical rank of titular archbishop .
In addition , Nuncio serves as the liaison between the Holy See and the Roman Catholic diocesan episcopate in the nation or region to which he is assigned .
Historically , the most important type of apocrisiary ( a title also applying to representatives exchanged by a high prelate with a Patriarch ) was the equivalent of Nuncio , sent by the Pope to the Byzantine Empire ; during the fifth and sixth centuries , when much of Italy remained under Byzantine control , several Popes were former apocrisiaries .
Nuncio is the liaison between the Holy See and the Roman Catholic diocesan episcopate in the nation or region to which he is assigned .
The later ` Forbes School of Painting ' , founded by Stanhope Forbes and his wife Elizabeth in 1899 , promoted the study of figure painting .
The Natural Law Party ( NLP ) was a transnational party `` founded on the principles of Transcendental Meditation `` Cowan , Douglas E. and Bromley , David G. ( 2008 ) Blackwell Publishing , Cults and New Religions : A Brief History page 48 the laws of nature , and their application to all levels of government .
In the 1992 elections Natural Law Party won 1,734 votes ( 0.06 % ) , and in the 1999 elections , won 2,924 votes ( 0.09 % ) , both below the then 1.5 % electoral threshold required to enter the Knesset .
A significant number of constituencies were contested by nationals of countries outside the UK , including Canada , Australia , New Zealand , and India , as British electoral law allows any member of a Commonwealth country to stand for Parliament .
The NLP ran 8 candidates for the 16 by-elections held between 1997 and 2001 , averaging 0.10 % of the vote , with every candidate losing their deposit .
The Natural Law Party ( United States ) ran John Hagelin as its presidential candidate in 1992 , 1996 , and 2000 .
Bentham , in discussing the relations of law and morality , found that when people discuss problems and issues Naturalistic fallacy talk about how Naturalistic fallacy wish Naturalistic fallacy would be as opposed to how Naturalistic fallacy actually is .
According to G. E. Moore 's Principia Ethica , when philosophers try to define `` good '' reductively in terms of natural properties like `` pleasant '' or `` desirable '' , Naturalistic fallacy are committing the naturalistic fallacy .
Neapolitan ice cream was named in the late 19th century as a reflection of Neapolitan ice cream presumed origins in the cuisine of the Italian city of Naples , and the many Neapolitan immigrants who brought their expertise in frozen desserts with them to the United States .
More than likely , chocolate , vanilla , and strawberry became the standard for the reason that Neapolitan ice cream were the most popular flavors in the United States at the time of introduction .
A slice of ice-cream cake made with mousse mixture and ordinary ice cream , presented in a small pleated paper case .
A cultural reference from The New York Times in 1887 : '' ... in a dress of pink and white stripes , strongly resembling Neapolitan ice cream '' .
1894 -- `` Neapolitan Icey Cones '' `` These are prepared by putting ices of various kinds and colors into a mold known as a Neapolitan ice box , which , when set and turned out , is cut into slices suitable for serving .
Banana cream , pistachio , or almond cream with cherry water and damson or strawberry water are other options .
Nature , in the broadest sense , is equivalent to Nature , physical world , or material world .
`` Nature '' refers to the phenomena of Nature , and also to life in general .
Condensing water vapor , most or all of which came from ice delivered by comets , produced the oceans and other water sources .
These currents help to moderate the differences in temperature between winter and summer in the temperate zones .
Thus , at any given time during the summer or winter , one part of the planet is more directly exposed to the rays of the sun .
Approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface ( an area of some 361 million square kilometers ) is covered by ocean , a continuous body of water that is customarily divided into several principal oceans and smaller seas .
The study of streams and waterways in general involves many branches of inter-disciplinary natural science and engineering , including hydrology , fluvial geomorphology , aquatic ecology , fish biology , riparian ecology and others .
Eugene Odum , a founder of ecology , stated : `` Any unit that includes all of the organisms ( ie : the `` community '' ) in a given area interacting with the physical environment so that a flow of energy leads to clearly defined trophic structure , biotic diversity , and material cycles ( i.e. : exchange of materials between living and nonliving parts ) within the system is an ecosystem '' .
Currently the entire Earth contains over 75 billion tons ( 150 trillion pounds or about 6.8 × 1013 kilograms ) of biomass ( life ) , which lives within various environments within the biosphere .
( cf Astrobiology ) The origin of life is still a poorly understood process , but it is thought to have occurred about 3.9 to 3.5 billion years ago during the hadean or archean eons on a primordial earth that had a substantially different environment than is found at present .
The resultant oxygen accumulated in the atmosphere and gave rise to the ozone layer .
The first form of life to develop on the Earth were microbes , and Nature remained the only form of life on the planet until about a billion years ago when multi-cellular organisms began to appear .
Originally Aristotle divided all living things between plants , which generally do not move fast enough for humans to notice , and animals .
Since then , Nature has become clear that the Plantae as originally defined included several unrelated groups , and the fungi and several groups of algae were removed to new kingdoms .
Regional floras commonly are divided into categories such as native flora and agricultural and garden flora , Nature lastly mentioned of which are intentionally grown and cultivated .
Because of the extent of human influence , the boundaries between what humans regard as nature and `` made environments '' is not clear cut except at the extremes .
Some activities , such as hunting and fishing , are used for both sustenance and leisure , often by different people .
Reasons why this association exists , and what the association consists of , is studied by the branch of philosophy called aesthetics .
Although natural wonders are celebrated in the Psalms and the Book of Job , wilderness portrayals in art became more prevalent in the 1800s , especially in the works of the Romantic movement .
As David Rothenburg writes , `` The beautiful is the root of science and the goal of art , the highest possibility that humanity can ever hope to see '' .
For all new moons between 1601 and 2401 , the maximum difference is 0.592 days = 14h13m in either direction .
The duration of a lunation ( i.e. the time from new moon to the next new moon ) varies in this period between 29.272 and 29.833 days , i.e. − 0.259 d = 6h12m shorter , or +0.302 d = 7h15m longer than average .
This range is smaller than the difference between mean and true conjunction , because during one lunation the periodic terms can not all change to their maximum opposite value .
In the computer science subfields of computer-aided design and computer graphics , the term B-spline frequently refers to a spline curve parametrized by spline functions that are expressed as linear combinations of B-splines ( in the mathematical sense above ) .
An alternative non-recursive definition for the m − n-1 basis B-splines is with and where is the truncated power function .
B-spline refers to using the B-spline representation where the coefficients are determined partly by the data to be fitted , and partly by an additional penalty function that aims to impose smoothness to avoid overfitting .
The North Pole , also known as the Geographic North Pole or Terrestrial North Pole , is , subject to the caveats explained below , defined as the point in the Northern Hemisphere where the Earth 's axis of rotation meets North Pole surface .
Recent studies have predicted that the North Pole may become seasonally ice-free due to Arctic ice shrinkage , with timescales varying from next year to fifty years or more .
The sea depth at the North Pole has been measured at 4261 m by the Russian Mir submersible in 2007 and at 4,087 m ( 13,410 ft ) by USS Nautilus in 1958 .
The Earth 's axis of rotation -- and hence the position of the North Pole -- was commonly believed to be fixed ( relative to the surface of the Earth ) until , in the 18th century , the mathematician Leonhard Euler predicted that the axis might `` wobble '' slightly .
The exact point of intersection of the Earth 's axis and the Earth 's surface , at any given moment , is called the `` instantaneous pole '' , but because of the `` wobble '' this can not be used as a definition of a fixed North Pole ( or South Pole ) when metre-scale precision is required .
Of course , given plate tectonics and isostasy , there is no system in which all geographic features are fixed .
Those who accompanied Peary on the final stage of the journey were not trained in navigation , and thus could not independently confirm his navigational work , which some claim to have been particularly sloppy as he approached the Pole .
The distances and speeds that Peary claimed to have achieved once the last support party turned back seem incredible to many people , almost three times that which he had accomplished up to that point .
Peary 's account of a journey to the Pole and back while traveling along the direct line -- the only strategy that is consistent with the time constraints that he was facing -- is contradicted by Henson 's account of tortuous detours to avoid pressure ridges and open leads .
Avery writes on his web site that `` The admiration and respect which I hold for Robert Peary , Matthew Henson and the four Inuit men who ventured North in 1909 , has grown enormously since we set out from Cape Columbia .
Another rejection of Peary 's claim arrived in 2009 , when E. Myles Standish of the California Institute of Technology , an experienced referee of scientific claims , reported numerous alleged lacunae and inconsistencies .
The first claimed flight over the Pole was made on 9 May 1926 by US naval officer Richard E. Byrd and pilot Floyd Bennett in a Fokker tri-motor aircraft .
According to Standish , `` Anyone who is acquainted with the facts and has any amount of logical reasoning can not avoid the conclusion that neither Cook , nor Peary , nor Byrd reached the North Pole ; and they all knew it '' .
Nobile , with several scientists and crew from the Norge , overflew the Pole a second time on 24 May 1928 , in the airship Italia .
The expedition members : oceanographer Pyotr Shirshov , meteorologist Yevgeny Fyodorov , radio operator Ernst Krenkel , and the leader Ivan Papanin conducted scientific research at the station for the next nine months .
By 19 February 1938 , when the group was picked up by the ice breakers Taimyr and Murman , their station had drifted 2850 km to the eastern coast of Greenland .
Next year , on May 9 , 1949 , two other Soviet scientists ( Vitali Volovich and Andrei Medvedev ) became the first people to parachute onto the North Pole .
In the 1980s , Plaisted 's pilots Weldy Phipps and Ken Lee signed affidavits asserting that no such airlift was provided .
In 1986 , Will Steger , with seven teammates , became the first to be confirmed as reaching the Pole by dogsled and without resupply .
On May 18 , 1987 , the USS Billfish ( SSN 676 ) , USS Sea Devil ( SSN 664 ) and the HMS Superb ( S 109 ) surfaced at North Pole , the first international surfacing at the North Pole .
On September 7 , 1991 , the German research vessel Polarstern and the Swedish icebreaker Oden reached the North Pole as the first conventional powered vessels .
The next attempted dive at the North Pole was organized by the same club next year , on April 24 , 1999 , and was successful .
As the year progresses and the Earth moves around the sun , the North Pole gradually turns away from the sun until at midwinter North Pole is facing away from the Sun to North Pole maximum extent .
The five surrounding Arctic countries , Russia , Canada , Norway , Denmark ( via Greenland ) , and the United States ( via Alaska ) , are limited to a 200 nmi exclusive economic zone around their coasts , and the area beyond that is administered by the International Seabed Authority .
In some Western cultures , the geographic North Pole is described as being the location of the workshop and residence of Santa Claus , although the depictions have been inconsistent between the geographic and magnetic North Pole .
Nanometre can be written in scientific notation as 1 & times ; 10 & minus ; 9 m , in engineering notation as , and is simply .
For marine investigations , jurisdiction between National Transportation Safety Board and the U.S. Coast Guard is prescribed in a detailed Memorandum of Understanding between the two agencies .
Significant investigations conducted by National Transportation Safety Board in all modes of transportation in recent years include the collapse of the I-35 highway bridge in Minneapolis , Minnesota ; the collision between two transit trains in Washington , D.C. ; the pipeline explosion that destroyed much of a neighborhood in San Bruno , California ; the sinking of an amphibious vessel in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania ; and the crash of a regional airliner near Buffalo , New York .
Histone equivalents and a simplified chromatin structure have also been found in Archea , suggesting that eukaryotes are not the only organisms that use nucleosomes .
The structure of Nucleosome is remarkably conserved , and even a change of over 100 residues between frog and yeast histones results in electron density maps with an overall root mean square deviation of only 1.6 Å .
Such digestion can occur also under natural conditions during apoptosis ( `` cell suicide '' or programmed cell death ) , because autodestruction of DNA typically is Nucleosome part .
The H2A/H2B dimer binds onto the H3/H4 tetramer due to interactions between H4 and H2B , which include the formation of a hydrophobic cluster .
These are due to the formation of two types of DNA binding sites within the octamer ; the α1α1 site , which uses the α1 helix from two adjacent histones , and the L1L2 site formed by the L1 and L2 loops .
Salt links and hydrogen bonding between both side-chain basic and hydroxyl groups and main-chain amides with the DNA backbone phosphates form the bulk of interactions with Nucleosome .
A chain of nucleosomes can be arranged in a 30 nm fiber , a compacted structure with a packing ratio of ~ 50 and whose formation is dependent on the presence of the H1 histone .
Although the nucleosome is a very stable protein-DNA complex , Nucleosome is not static and has been shown to undergo a number of different structural re-arrangements including nucleosome sliding and DNA site exposure .
Work from the Widom laboratory has shown that nucleosomal DNA is in equilibrium between a wrapped and unwrapped state .
Modifications ( such as acetylation or phosphorylation ) that lower the charge of the globular histone core are predicted to `` loosen '' core-DNA association ; the strength of the effect depends on location of the modification within the core .
What is shared between all , and indeed the hallmark of ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling , is that they all result in altered DNA accessibility .
Studies looking at gene activation in vivo and , more astonishingly , remodelling in vitro have revealed that chromatin remodeling events and transcription-factor binding are cyclical and periodic in nature .
A reaction consisting of the histone octamers and a naked DNA template can be incubated together at a salt concentration of 2 M. By steadily decreasing the salt concentration , Nucleosome will equilibrate to a position where it is wrapped around the histone octamers , forming nucleosomes .
Neurosurgery ( or neurological surgery ) is the medical specialty concerned with the prevention , diagnosis , treatment , and rehabilitation of disorders which affect any portion of the nervous system including Neurosurgery , spinal cord , peripheral nerves , and extra-cranial cerebrovascular system .
The newly qualified Doctor must then complete Foundation training lasting two years ; this is a paid training program in a hospital or clinical setting covering a range of medical specialties including surgery .
Named for Nintendo 64 64-bit central processing unit , Nintendo 64 was released in June 1996 in Japan , September 1996 in North America , March 1997 in Europe and Australia , September 1997 in France and December 1997 in Brazil .
Around the same time , Rare ( UK ) and Midway ( USA ) released two arcade titles , Killer Instinct and Cruis 'n USA , which boasted their upcoming release on the Ultra Nintendo 64 platform .
Nintendo claimed Nintendo 64 needed more time for Nintendo 64 software to mature , and for third-party developers to produce titles .
Benimaru Itō , a developer for EarthBound Nintendo 64 and friend of Shigeru Miyamoto , speculated in 1997 that Nintendo 64 lower popularity in Japan was due to the lack of role-playing video games .
However , the Nintendo Nintendo 64 game library included a high number of critically acclaimed and widely sold games .
Cartridges for some later games , such as Resident Evil 2 , Sin and Punishment : Successor of the Earth , and Conker 's Bad Fur Day , featured more ROM space , allowing for more detailed graphics .
The Nintendo Nintendo 64 had weaknesses that were caused by a combination of oversight on the part of the hardware designers , limitations on 3D technology of the time , and manufacturing capabilities .
Perfect Dark , Banjo-Tooie , and Conker 's Bad Fur Day are possibly the best examples of this ingenuity , all of which were developed by Rare .
By altering the microcode run on the device , Nintendo 64 could perform different operations , create new effects , and be better tuned for speed or quality ; however , Nintendo was unwilling to share the microcode tools with developers until the end of the Nintendo 64 's life-cycle .
Several companies , such as Factor 5 , Boss Game Studios and Rare , were able to write custom microcode that ran their software better than SGI 's standard microcode .
One of the best examples of custom microcode on the Nintendo Nintendo 64 was Factor 5 's N64 port of the Indiana Jones and Nintendo 64 .
In the end , Nintendo 64 was more feature-filled than the PC version , and unsurprisingly , was one of the most advanced games for Nintendo Nintendo 64 .
Factor 5 again used custom microcode with games such as and .
By the time RAM prices had fallen and become more accessible , it was too late to make any revisions so Nintendo decided to keep the cartridge format .
Nintendo planned to compensate for increased RAM demands through add-ons to the to ROM cartridges such as I/O hardware and support chips ( such as co-processors ) , as was done on some SNES games ( including Star Fox , using the Super FX chip ) .
Most third-party developers switched to the PlayStation , such as Square and Enix , whose Final Fantasy VII and Dragon Warrior VII were initially pre-planned for the N64 , while some who remained released fewer games to the Nintendo Nintendo 64 .
Nintendo 64 risked being left with a surplus of expensive cartridges for a failed game or a weeks-long shortage of product if Nintendo 64 underestimated a game 's popularity .
Each Nintendo Nintendo 64 cartridge contains a lockout chip ( similar to the 10NES ) to prevent manufacturers from creating unauthorized copies of games and discourage production of unlicensed games .
N64 game-titles generally used faster ( and more compact ) 32-bit data-operations , as these were sufficient to generate 3D-scene data for the console 's RSP ( Reality Signal Processor ; see below ) unit .
Emulators -- such as UltraHLE and Project64 -- benefit from the scarcity of 64-bit operations in Nintendo 64 executable-code , especially when running with a 32-bit machine architecture as a host .
The Nintendo Nintendo 64 was one of the first modern consoles to implement a unified memory subsystem , instead of having separate banks of memory for CPU , audio , and video , for example .
The system provides both composite video and S-Video through the `` MULTI OUT '' connector on the rear of the system ; however , the Nintendo Nintendo 64 removed certain pin connections for providing RGB video , despite the DAC chip used in early models having the capability built-in .
However , very few of Nintendo 64 games provided options to use this feature , these were : Banjo-Tooie , Donkey Kong 64 , GoldenEye 007 , The World Is Not Enough , Jet Force Gemini , Perfect Dark , , , , and South Park .
The standard Nintendo Nintendo 64 is dark gray , nearly black , and the controller is light gray ( later releases in America included a bonus second controller in Atomic Purple ) .
Soon after , bundle packs of the game , controller , and gold Nintendo Nintendo 64 were released for the US and PAL markets .
One was the Daiei Hawks which was only sold in Daiei Hawks stores , and the other was the Jusco 30th anniversary , which was only sold in Jusco stores .
The Daiei Hawks featured an orange translucent top , and a black translucent bottom , very similar to the Fire Orange and Smoke Black Nintendo Nintendo 64 , although not the same .
The Jusco 30th anniversary , featured a very light violet-translucent color on the top , and white translucent on the bottom .
The Extreme Green , Extreme Green console bundle , Gold Controller bundle , and a very limited Gold Nintendo Nintendo 64 which was bundled with two gold controllers .
Fourteen games had black cartridges , while other colors ( such as green , blue , red , yellow and gold ) were each used for six or fewer games .
Only nine games , among them the three Mario Artist games ( Talent Studio , Polygon Studio , and Paint Studio ) , were released for the Nintendo Nintendo 64 DD .
Arab people , also known as Arabs ( , ʿarab ) , are a panethnicity primarily living in the Arab world , which is located in Western Asia and North Africa .
For example , the Ghassanids and the Lakhmids which originated from Southern Semitic speaking Yemen made a major contribution in the creation of the Arabic language .
In the USA , Arab people have historically been racially classified as white/Caucasian and , since 1997 , by the U.S. Census as well .
With the rise of Islam in the 7th century , and as the language of the Qur ` an , Arabic became the lingua franca of the Islamic world .
Arabic culture and language , however , began a more limited diffusion before the Islamic age , first spreading in West Asia beginning in the 2nd century , as Arab Christians such as the Ghassanids , Lakhmids and Banu Judham began migrating north from Arabia into the Syrian Desert , south western Iraq and the Levant .
Some combine aspects of each definition , as done by Palestinian Habib Hassan Touma , who defines an Arab `` in the modern sense of the word '' , as `` one who is a national of an Arab state , has command of the Arabic language , and possesses a fundamental knowledge of Arab tradition , that is , of the manners , customs , and political and social systems of the culture '' .
All contemporary Arab people were considered as descended from two ancestors , Qahtan and Adnan .
The so-called Sabaean or Himyarite language described by Abū Muhammad al-Hasan al-Hamdānī ( died 946 ) appears to be a special case of language contact between the two groups , an originally north Arabic dialect spoken in the south , and influenced by Old South Arabian .
Two references valuable for understanding the political significance of Arab identity : Michael C. Hudson , Arab Politics : The Search for Legitimacy ( Yale University Press , 1977 ) , especially Chs. 2 and 3 ; and Michael N. Barnett , Dialogues in Arab Politics : Negotiations in Regional Order ( Columbia University Press , 1998 ) .
In 2009 Arab countries received a total of 35.1 billion USD in remittance in-flows and remittances sent to Jordan , Egypt and Lebanon from other Arab countries are 40 to 190 per cent higher than trade revenues between these and other Arab countries .
Most of the prominent Indonesians , Malaysians , and Singaporeans of Arab descent are Hadhrami people with origins in southern Yemen in the Hadramawt coastal region .
South Asia There are only two communities with the self-identity Arab in South Asia , the Chaush of the Deccan region and the Chavuse of Gujerat , who are by and large descended of Hadhrami migrants who settled in these two regions in the 18th Centuries .
Ibn Khaldun 's Muqaddima distinguishes between sedentary Muslims who used to be nomadic Arab people and the Bedouin nomadic Arabs of the desert .
The Qur ` an calls Arab people , `` Arabic '' , and , `` clear '' .
Based on this , in early Islamic terminology , referred to the language , and to the Arab Bedouins , carrying a negative connotation due to the Qur ` anic verdict just cited .
But after the Islamic conquest of the 8th century , the language of the nomadic Arabs became regarded as the most pure by the grammarians following Abi Ishaq , and the term , `` language of the Arabs '' , denoted the uncontaminated language of the Bedouins .
The earliest are written in variants of epigraphic south Arabian musnad script , including the 8th century BCE Hasaean inscriptions of eastern Saudi Arabia , the 6th century BCE Lihyanite texts of southeastern Saudi Arabia and the Thamudic texts found throughout Arabia and the Sinai ( not in reality connected with Thamud ) .
Arab people established garrison towns at Ramla , ar-Raqqah , Basra , Kufa , Mosul and Samarra , all of which developed into major cities .
Abbassid Era ( 750-1513 ) Abbasids let a revolt against the Umayyads and defeated them in the Battle of the Zab effectively ending their rule in all part of the Empire except Al-Andalus .
After World War I when the Ottoman Empire was overthrown by the British Empire , former Ottoman colonies were divided up between the British and French as Mandates .
There are also Arab communities consisting of Druze and Baha'is .
Most North and South American Arabs are Christian , as are about half of Arabs in Australia who come particularly from Lebanon , Syria , and the Palestinian territories .
Jews from Arab countries -- mainly Mizrahi Jews and Yemenite Jews -- are today usually not categorised as Arab , though there is a debate on whether or not the term `` Arab people '' can be applied to them .
Sociologist Philip Mendes asserts that before the anti-Jewish actions of the 1930s and 1940s , overall Iraqi Jews `` viewed themselves as Arabs of the Jewish faith , rather than as a separate race or nationality '' .
The world of Arab music has long been dominated by Cairo , a cultural center , though musical innovation and regional styles abound from Morocco to Saudi Arabia .
Nano (text editor) is a text editor for Unix-like computing systems or operating environments using a command line interface .
Nieuwe Waterweg , which opened in 1872 and has a length of approximately , was constructed to keep the city and port of Rotterdam accessible to seafaring vessels as the natural Meuse-Rhine branches silted up .
The point where Nieuwe Waterweg enters into the North Sea , between Hook of Holland on the north bank and the Maasvlakte to the south , is called the Maasmond .
Stanley Henning proposes that the Epitaphs identification of the internal martial arts with the Taoism indigenous to China and of the external martial arts with the foreign Buddhism of Shaolin -- and the Manchu Qing Dynasty to which Huang Zongxi was opposed -- was an act of political defiance rather than one of technical classification .
Beginning in 1914 , Sun Lutang together with Yang Shao-hou , Yang Chengfu and Wu Chien-ch ` uan taught t ` ai chi to the public at the Beijing Physical Education Research Institute .
These participants were generally practitioners of t ` ai chi ch ` uan , Xíngyìquán and Bāguàzhǎng .
Pushing hands is a training method commonly used in neijia arts to develop sensitivity and softness .
Some say that there is no differentiation between the so-called internal and external systems of the Chinese martial arts , while other well known teachers have expressed differing opinions .
Traditional teachers also believe that understanding the core theoretical principles of neijia and the ability to apply them are a necessary gateway to health benefits .
Neijia is a term in Chinese martial arts , grouping those styles that practice nèijìng , usually translated as internal martial arts , occupied with spiritual , mental or qi-related aspects , as opposed to an `` external '' approach focused on physiological aspects .
The height of Polaris in degrees above the horizon is the latitude of the observer , within a degree or so .
Piloting ( also called pilotage ) involves navigating a vessel in restricted waters and fixing Navigation position as precisely as possible at frequent intervals .
The second critical component of celestial navigation is to measure the angle formed at the observer 's eye between the celestial body and the sensible horizon .
The practice of taking celestial observations from the deck of a rolling ship , often through cloud cover and with a hazy horizon , is by far the most challenging part of celestial navigation .
A radio direction finder or RDF is a device for finding the direction to a radio source .
One , known as the `` contour method , '' involves marking a transparent plastic template on the radar screen and moving Navigation to the chart to fix a position .
Studies show that human error is a factor in 80 percent of Navigation accidents and that in many cases the human making the error had access to information that could have prevented the accident .
There are some fifty elements of a comprehensive passage plan depending on the size and type of vessel .
In fiction , the writer believes that readers will make an effort to follow and interpret an indirectly or abstractly presented progression of theme , whereas the production of non-fiction has more to do with the direct provision of information .
A good example of this are the Non-fiction scientific books and papers which explain the science of the day but are then superseded by better representations .
The smallest species , the pink fairy armadillo , is roughly chipmunk-sized at 85 g and 11 cm in total length .
In common with other xenarthrans , armadillos in general , have low body temperatures ( 33 -- 36 ° C ) and basal metabolic rates ( from 40 -- 60 % of that expected in placental mammals of their mass ) .
Order CINGULATA † indicates extinct taxon Armadillos are often used in the study of leprosy , since Armadillo , along with mangabey monkeys , rabbits and mice ( on their footpads ) , are among the few known species that can contract the disease systemically .
Because Armadillo are always genetically identical , the group of four young provides a good subject for scientific , behavioral or medical tests that need consistent biological and genetic makeup in the test subjects .
Cryptonomicon Cryptonomicon , described as a `` cryptographer 's bible '' , is a fictional book summarizing America 's knowledge of cryptography and cryptanalysis .
Begun by John Wilkins ( Cryptonomicon is mentioned in Quicksilver ) and amended over time by William Friedman , Lawrence Waterhouse , and others , Cryptonomicon is described by Katherine Hayles as `` a kind of Kabala created by a Brotherhood of Code that stretches across centuries .
In 1942 , Cryptonomicon Cryptonomicon , is assigned to the newly formed joint British and American Detachment 2702 .
Marine sergeant Bobby Shaftoe , a veteran of China and Guadalcanal , serves in unit 2702 , carrying out Waterhouse 's plans .
Circa 1997 , Randy Waterhouse ( Lawrence 's grandson ) joins his old Dungeons and Dragons companion Avi Halaby in a new startup , providing Pinoy-grams to migrant Filipinos via new fiber-optic cables .
Stephenson 's subsequent work , The Baroque Cycle , provides part of the backstory to the characters and events featured in Cryptonomicon .
The Baroque Cycle , set in the late 17th and early 18th centuries , features ancestors of several characters in Cryptonomicon , as well as events and items which affect the action of the later-set book .
The short story `` Jipi and the Paranoid Chip '' appears to take place some time after the events of Cryptonomicon .
In the Beginning ... Was the Command Line is an essay by Neal Stephenson which was originally published online in 1999 and later made available in book form ( November 1999 , ISBN 0-380-81593-1 ) .
In the Beginning... Was the Command Line also analyzes the corporate/collective culture of the Microsoft , Macintosh , and free software communities .
With Neal Stephenson 's permission , Garrett Birkel responded to In the Beginning ... was the Command Line in 2004 , bringing it up to date and critically discussing Stephenson 's argument .
In the Beginning... Was the Command Line is an essay by Neal Stephenson which was originally published online in 1999 and later made available in book form ( November 1999 , ISBN 0-380-81593-1 ) .
This was primarily due to the increased usage of Microsoft 's Internet Explorer web browser software , and partly because the Netscape Corporation ( later purchased by AOL ) did not sustain Netscape Navigator technical innovation after the late 1990s .
During this era , `` Internet Starter Kit '' books were popular , and usually included a floppy disk or CD containing internet software , and this was a popular means of obtaining Netscape 's and other browsers .
Other web browsers claimed to be compatible with Netscape 's extensions to HTML , and therefore used the same name in their User-Agent identifiers so that web servers would send them the same pages as were sent to Netscape browsers .
With a good mix of features and an attractive licensing scheme that allowed free use for non-commercial purposes , Netscape Navigator soon became the de facto standard , particularly on the Windows platform .
An important innovation that Netscape introduced in 1994 was the on-the-fly display of web pages , where text and graphics appeared on the screen as the web page downloaded .
Netscape , according to critics , was more interested in bending the web to Netscape Navigator own de facto `` standards '' ( bypassing standards committees and thus marginalizing the commercial competition ) than Netscape Navigator was in fixing bugs in Netscape Navigator products .
The competition between Microsoft and Netscape dominated the Browser Wars .
For Windows 95 ) and IE , Version 2.0 ( the first cross platform web browser supporting Windows and Mac OS ) were thought by many to be inferior and primitive when compared to contemporary versions of Netscape Navigator .
The Netscape browser , once a solid product , became crash-prone and buggy ; for example , some versions re-downloaded an entire web page to re-render Netscape Navigator when the browser window was re-sized ( a nuisance to dial-up users ) , and the browser would usually crash when the page contained simple Cascading Style Sheets .
The same code-base , notably the Gecko layout engine , became the basis of independent applications , including Firefox and Thunderbird .
The presence of such a gap suggested communication via chemical messengers traversing the synaptic cleft , and in 1921 German pharmacologist Otto Loewi ( 1873 -- 1961 ) confirmed that neurons can communicate by releasing chemicals .
The properties of neutronium are vastly different from elements with nonzero atomic numbers , because neutronium does not have electron shells and , hence , is not made of atoms .
Neutron star has a mass between about 1.4 and 3.2 solar masses ( see Chandrasekhar Limit ) , with a corresponding radius of about 12 km if the Akmal -- Pandharipande -- Ravenhall equation of state ( APR EOS ) is used .
As the core of a massive star is compressed during a supernova , and collapses into a neutron star , Neutron star retains most of Neutron star angular momentum .
The nuclei become increasingly small ( gravity and pressure overwhelming the strong force ) until the core is reached , by definition the point where Neutron star disappear altogether .
Therefore , for a typical slow down rate of 10 − 15 seconds per rotation , Neutron star now rotating in 1 second will rotate in 1.000003 seconds after a century , or 1.03 seconds after 1 million years .
After the starquake , Neutron star will have a smaller equatorial radius , and since angular momentum is conserved , rotational speed increases .
The pulses come at the same rate as the rotation of Neutron star , and thus , appear periodic .
Antisemitism in the Antisemitism in the Arab world world has increased greatly in modern times , for many reasons : the breakdown of the Ottoman Empire and traditional Islamic society ; European influence , brought about by Western imperialism and Christian Arabs ; Nazi propaganda ; resentment over Jewish nationalism ( see Zionism ) ; and the rise of Antisemitism in the Arab world nationalism .
The rise of political Islam during the 1980s and afterwards provided a new mutation of Islamic antisemitism , which gave the hatred of Jews a religious component .
In Antisemitism in the Arab world 2008 report on contemporary Arab-Muslim antisemitism , the Israeli Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center dates the beginning of this phenomenon to the spread of classic European Christian antisemitism into the Arab world starting in the late 19th century .
Dhimmis had to pay a special poll tax ( the `` jizya '' ) , which exempted them from military service , and also from payment of the Zakat alms tax required of Muslims .
Jewish communities , like Christian ones , were typically constituted as semi-autonomous entities managed by their own laws and leadership , who carried the responsibility for the community towards the Muslim rulers .
Some scholars hold that Antisemitism in the Arab world antisemitism in the modern world arose in the nineteenth century , against the backdrop of conflicting Jewish and Antisemitism in the Arab world nationalism , and was imported into the Antisemitism in the Arab world world primarily by nationalistically minded Christian Arabs ( and only subsequently was it `` Islamized '' ) , Mark Cohen states .
Antisemitism in the Antisemitism in the Arab world world increased in the twentieth century , as antisemitic propaganda and blood libels were imported from Europe and as resentment against Zionist efforts in British Mandate of Palestine spread .
In March 1921 , Musa Khazem El Husseini , Mayor of Jerusalem , told Winston Churchill `` The Jews have been amongst the most active advocates of destruction in many lands ... It is well known that the disintegration of Russia was wholly or in great part brought about by the Jews , and a large proportion of the defeat of Germany and Austria must also be put at their door '' .
Matthias Küntzel has suggested that the decisive transfer of Jewish conspiracy theory took place between 1937 and 1945 under the impact of Nazi propaganda targeted at the Antisemitism in the Arab world world .
After the promulgation of the Nuremberg Laws , Hitler received telegrams of congratulation from all over Antisemitism in the Arab world and Muslim world , especially from Morocco and Palestine , where the Nazi propaganda had been most active ... ... Before long political parties of the Nazi and Fascist type began to appear , complete with paramilitary youth organizations , colored shirts , strict discipline and more or less charismatic leaders .
George Gruen attributes the increased animosity towards Jews in the Antisemitism in the Arab world world to the breakdown of the Ottoman Empire and traditional Islamic society ; domination by Western colonial powers under which Jews gained a disproportionately large role in the commercial , professional , and administrative life of the region ; the rise of Antisemitism in the Arab world nationalism , whose proponents sought the wealth and positions of local Jews through government channels ; resentment over Jewish nationalism and the Zionist movement ; and the readiness of unpopular regimes to scapegoat local Jews for political purposes .
Robert Bernstein , founder of Human Rights Watch , says that antisemitism is `` deeply ingrained and institutionalized '' in `` Antisemitism in the Arab world nations in modern times '' .
All Antisemitism in the Arab world `` institutions , organizations , merchants , commission agents and individuals '' were called upon `` to refuse to deal in , distribute , or consume Zionist products or manufactured goods '' .
Hitler himself , whom they accuse of Nazism , is in my eyes no more than a modest ` pupil ' in the world of murder and bloodshed .
The entire matter , as many French and British scientists and researchers have proven , is nothing more than a huge Israeli plot aimed at extorting the German government in particular and the European countries in general .
Cartoons appearing in the daily Al-Wafd in 2003 depict Jews as Satanic figures with hooked noses and equates them with Nazis .
In August 2010 , Saudi columnist Iman Al-Quwaifli sharply criticized the `` phenomenon of sympathy for Adolf Hitler and for Nazism in the Antisemitism in the Arab world world '' , specifically citing the words of Hussam Fawzi Jabar , an Islamic cleric who justified Hitler 's actions against the Jews in an Egyptian talk show one month earlier .
Jordan does not allow entry to Jews with visible signs of Judaism or even with personal religious items in their possession .
Abdul Rahman Al-Sudais , the imam of the Grand mosque in Mecca , Saudi Arabia , has been described as an antisemite for publicly praying to God to ` terminate ' the Jews Saudi Arabian media often attacks Jews in books , news articles , at their Mosques and with what some describe as antisemitic satire .
Saudi Arabian government officials and state religious leaders often promote the idea that Jews are conspiring to take over the entire world ; as proof of their claims they publish and frequently cite The Protocols of the Elders of Zion as factual .
`` Why are they ( the Jews ) hated by all the people which hosted them , such as Iraq and Egypt thousands years ago , and Germany , Spain , France and the UK , up to the days they gained of power over the capital and the press , in order to rewrite the history ?
His book inspired the Egyptian TV series Horseman Without a Horse ( see below ) and a spinoff , The Diaspora , which led to Hezbollah 's al-Manar being banned in Europe for broadcasting it .
Tunisia 's President , Habib Bourguiba , has in all probability never been hostile to the Jews , but there was always that notorious `` delay '' , which meant that the police arrived on the scene only after the shops had been pillaged and burnt .
On November 30 , 2012 , prominent Tunisian imam Sheikh Ahmad Al-Suhayli of Radès , told his followers during a live broadcast on Hannibal TV that `` God wants to destroy this Tunisian sprinkling of Jews and is sterilizing the wombs of Jewish women '' .
The Hamas , an offshoot of the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood , has a foundational statement of principles , or `` covenant '' which claims that the French revolution , the Russian revolution , colonialism and both world wars were created by the Zionists .
Claims that Jews and Freemasons were behind the French Revolution originated in Germany in the mid-19th century .
This has resulted in Palestinian cries for justice , equality , freedom and even basic human rights being ignored while the world getting consumed with delegitimizing Israel from either ignorance or malice '' .
Mahmoud Abbas , leader of the PLO , published a Ph.D. thesis ( at Moscow University ) in 1982 , called The Secret Connection between the Nazis and the Leaders of the Zionist Movement .
In 2001 -- 2002 , Arab Radio and Television produced a 30-part television miniseries entitled Horseman Without a Horse , which contains dramatizations of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion .
Many of them settled in Nassau, Bahamas ( then and still the commerce capital of the Bahamas ) and eventually came to outnumber the original inhabitants .
The largest concentration of Africans historically lived in the `` Over-the-Hill '' suburbs of Grants Town and Bain Town to the south of the city of Nassau, Bahamas , while most of the inhabitants of European descent lived on the island 's northern coastal ridges .
While the busiest part of Downtown is the Bay Street thoroughfare and the Woodes Rogers Walk , located across the street from the port and parallel to Bay , the area extends for several blocks in each direction .
Nastassja Kinski ( born 24 January 1961 ) is a German actress who has appeared in more than 60 films , in both Nastassja Kinski native Europe and the United States .
Kinksi 's starring roles include Nastassja Kinski Golden Globe Award-winning portrayal of the title character in Tess and multi-awardwinner Paris , Texas , one of a number of films made with German director Wim Wenders .
Nastassja Kinski has stated that , as a child , Nastassja Kinski felt exploited by the industry , telling a journalist from W Magazine , `` If Nastassja Kinski had had somebody to protect Nastassja Kinski or if Nastassja Kinski had felt more secure about myself , Nastassja Kinski would not have accepted certain things .
The first and best known of these trials , described as `` the greatest trial in history '' by Norman Birkett , one of the British judges who presided over it , sfn Marrus 1997 p = 563 was the Trial of the Major War Criminals before the International Military Tribunal ( IMT ) .
Held between 20 November 1945 and 1 October 1946 , sfn Harris 2006 p = 106 the Tribunal was given the task of trying 23 of the most important political and military leaders of the Third Reich , though one of the defendants , Martin Bormann , was tried in absentia , while another , Robert Ley , committed suicide within a week of Nuremberg Trials commencement .
On 1 November 1943 , the Soviet Union , the United Kingdom and the United States published their `` Declaration on German Atrocities in Occupied Europe '' , which gave a `` full warning '' that , when the Nazis were defeated , the Allies would `` pursue them to the uttermost ends of the earth ... in order that justice may be done .
The plan for the `` Trial of European War Criminals '' was drafted by Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson and the War Department .
After a series of negotiations between Britain , the US , Soviet Union and France , details of Nuremberg Trials were worked out .
At the meetings in Tehran ( 1943 ) , Yalta ( 1945 ) and Potsdam ( 1945 ) , the three major wartime powers , the United Kingdom , United States , and the Soviet Union , agreed on the format of punishment for those responsible for war crimes during World War II .
The legal basis for the trial was established by the London Charter , which was agreed upon by the four so-called Great Powers on 8 August 1945 , sfn Lawrence 1947 p = 151 and which restricted the trial to `` punishment of the major war criminals of the European Axis countries '' .
Davidson 1997 p = 30 -- 1 These included Georg Fröschmann , Heinz Fritz ( Hans Fritzsche ) , Otto Pannenbecker ( Wilhelm Frick ) , Alfred Thoma ( Alfred Rosenberg ) , Kurt Kauffmann ( Ernst Kaltenbrunner ) , Hans Laternser ( general staff and high command ) , Franz Exner ( Alfred Jodl ) , Alfred Seidl ( Hans Frank ) , Otto Stahmer ( Hermann Göring ) , Walter Ballas ( Gustav Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach ) , Hans Flächsner ( Albert Speer ) , Günther von Rohrscheidt ( Rudolf Heß ) , Egon Kubuschok ( Franz von Papen ) , Robert Servatius ( Fritz Sauckel ) , Fritz Sauter ( Joachim von Ribbentrop ) , Walther Funk ( Baldur von Schirach ) , Hanns Marx ( Julius Streicher ) , Otto Nelte and Herbert Kraus .
Throughout Nuremberg Trials , specifically between January and July 1946 , the defendants and a number of witnesses were interviewed by American psychiatrist Leon Goldensohn .
The French judges suggested the use of a firing squad for the military condemned , as is standard for military courts-martial , but this was opposed by Biddle and the Soviet judges .
At trial , Nuremberg Trials ruled that any member of an organization convicted of war crimes , such as the SS or Gestapo , who had joined after 1939 would be considered a war criminal .
Both proposals were rejected by the IMT , particularly by Sir Lawrence and Biddle , and some sources indicate that this resulted in Jackson being viewed unfavourably by the latter .
The Tribunal is celebrated for establishing that `` crimes against international law are committed by men , not by abstract entities , and only by punishing individuals who commit such crimes can the provisions of international law be enforced .
`` I thought at the time and still think that Nuremberg Trials were unprincipled , '' he wrote .
In an editorial at the time The Economist a British weekly newspaper , criticised the hypocrisy of both Britain and France for supporting the expulsion of the Soviet Union for its unprovoked attack against Finland from the League of Nations in 1939 and for six years later cooperating with the USSR as a respected equal at Nuremberg .
This was addressed in the judgment relating to war crimes and crimes against humanity , which contains an expansion of customary law : `` the Convention Hague 1907 expressly stated that it was an attempt ` to revise the general laws and customs of war , ' which Nuremberg Trials thus recognised to be then existing , but by 1939 these rules laid down in the Convention were recognised by all civilised nations , and were regarded as being declaratory of the laws and customs of war which are referred to in Article 6 ( b ) of the London Charter '' .
For instance , the English booth consisted of three interpreters , one working from German into English , one working from French , and one from Russian , etc. Defendants who did not speak any of the four official languages were provided with consecutive court interpreters .
Many were former translators , army personnel , and linguists , some were experienced consecutive interpreters , others were ordinary individuals and even recent secondary school-graduates who led international lives in multilingual environments .
Nuremberg Trials was , and still is believed , that the qualities that made the best interpreters were not just a perfect understanding of two or more languages , but more importantly a broad sense of culture , encyclopædic knowledge , inquisitiveness , as well as a naturally calm disposition .
Today , all major international organizations , as well as any conference or government that uses more than one official language , uses extempore simultaneous interpretation .
Natasha Jessica Stott Despoja AM ( born 9 September 1969 ) is an Australian former politician and former leader of the Australian Democrats .
During the passage of the Goods and Services Tax ( GST ) legislation in 1999 , Stott Despoja , along with Andrew Bartlett , split from the party 's other senators by opposing the package , which had been negotiated by Lees and prime minister John Howard .
In 2004 , Stott Despoja took 11 weeks ' leave from the Senate following the birth of Natasha Stott Despoja first child before returning to full duties as Democrat spokesperson on , inter alia , Higher Education , Status of Women , and Work and Family .
or abbreviated to : The maxim states that there can be no crime committed , and no punishment meted out , without a violation of penal law as Nullum crimen, nulla poena sine praevia lege poenali existed at the time .
Normal play Nim ( or more precisely the system of nimbers ) is fundamental to the Sprague-Grundy theorem , which essentially says that in normal play every impartial game is equivalent to a Nim heap that yields the same outcome when played in parallel with other normal play impartial games ( see disjunctive sum ) .
Anne `` Ninon '' de l'Enclos also spelled Ninon de l'Enclos and Ninon de Lanclos ( 10 November 1620 -- 17 October 1705 ) was a French author , courtesan , freethinker , and patron of the arts .
In Ninon de l'Enclos early thirties Ninon de l'Enclos was responsible for encouraging the young Molière , and when Ninon de l'Enclos died Ninon de l'Enclos left money for the son of Ninon de l'Enclos accountant , a nine-year old named François Marie Arouet , later to become known as Voltaire , so he could buy books .
Starting in the late 1660s Ninon de l'Enclos retired from Ninon de l'Enclos courtesan lifestyle and concentrated more on Ninon de l'Enclos literary friends -- from 1667 , Ninon de l'Enclos hosted Ninon de l'Enclos gatherings at l'hôtel Sagonne , which was considered `` the '' location of the salon of Ninon de l'Enclos despite other locales in the past .
To the end , Ninon de l'Enclos `` was convinced that Ninon de l'Enclos had no soul , and never abandoned that conviction , not even in advanced old age , not even at the hour of Ninon de l'Enclos death '' .
About 1,800 NIST associates ( guest researchers and engineers from American companies and foreign nations ) complement the staff .
In 1821 John Quincy Adams stated , `` Weights and measures may be ranked among the necessities of life to every individual of human society '' , but this had long been understood .
The Articles of Confederation , ratified by the colonies in 1781 , contained the clause , `` The United States in Congress assembled shall also have the sole and exclusive right and power of regulating the alloy and value of coin struck by their own authority , or by that of the respective states -- fixing the standards of weights and measures throughout the United States -- ... '' .
Article 1 , section 8 , of the Constitution of the United States ( 1789 ) , transferred this power to Congress ; `` The Congress shall have power ... To coin money , regulate the value thereof , and of foreign coin , and fix the standard of weights and measures '' .
The `` National Bureau of Standards '' became the National Institute of Standards and Technology in 1988 .
The Congress of 1866 legalized the use of the metric system through the passage of U.S. code 1952 Ed. , Title 15 , Ch 6 , sections 204 and 205 .
The `` World Trade Center Collapse Investigation '' , directed by lead investigator Shyam Sunder , covered three aspects , including a technical building and fire safety investigation to study the factors contributing to the probable cause of the collapses of the WTC Towers ( WTC 1 and 2 ) and WTC 7 .
The final report on the WTC Towers -- including 30 recommendations for improving building and occupant safety -- was released on October 26 , 2005 .
SAMATE ( Software Assurance Metrics And Tool Evaluation ) is a NIST project focused on improving software assurance by developing methods to enable software tool evaluations , measuring the effectiveness of tools and techniques , and identifying gaps in tools and methods .
National Institute of Standards and Technology is a measurement standards laboratory , otherwise known as a National Metrological Institute ( NMI ) , which is a non-regulatory agency of the United States Department of Commerce .
For fixed-wing aircraft , single syllable words denoted piston-prop and turboprop , while multiple syllables denoted jets .
A fictional NATO reporting name `` Firefox '' for a fictional `` MiG-31 '' appears in the novel Firefox and subsequent movie .
In Judaism , the Seven Laws of Noah ( Sheva mitzvot B'nei Noach ) , or Seven Laws of Noah , are a set of moral imperatives that , according to the Talmud , were given by God as a binding set of laws for the `` children of Noah '' -- that is , all of humankind .
, the Apostolic Decree of the Council of Jerusalem , resolved this early Christian dispute by commending righteous Gentiles to understand Seven Laws of Noah , rather than to live under the same dictates as Torah-observant Jews and be circumcised ( cf. , ) .
As Christianity began as a sect of first-century Judaism , so modern Judaism has continued to observe Gentiles and proselytes as not being under the scrutiny of the ordinances as Jews .
Some modern Jewish and Christian scholars , however , dispute the connection between Acts 15 and Seven Laws of Noah , the content of Seven Laws of Noah , the historical reliability of the Acts of the Apostles , and the nature of Biblical law in Christianity .
The rainbow , referring to the Noachide or First Covenant ( Genesis 9 ) , is the symbol of many organized Noahide groups , following .
Rabbi David ben Solomon ibn Abi Zimra ( Radbaz ) , a contemporary commentator on Maimonides , expressed surprise that he left out castration and sorcery which were listed in the Talmud .
The 16th-century work Asarah Maamarot by Rabbi Menahem Azariah of Fano ( Rema mi-Fano ) enumerates thirty commandments , listing the latter twenty-three as extensions of the original seven , which includes prohibitions on various forms of sorcery , as well as incest and bestiality .
In January 2004 , the spiritual leader of the Druze community in Israel , Sheikh Mowafak Tarif , signed a declaration calling on all non-Jews in Israel to observe Seven Laws of Noah as laid down in the Talmud and expounded upon in Jewish tradition .
The mayor of the Galilean city of Shefa - ` Amr ( Shfaram ) , where Muslim , Christian and Druze communities live side by side , also signed the document .
The declaration includes the commitment to make a better , more humane world based on the Seven Noahide Commandments and the values they represent commanded by the Creator to all mankind through Moses on Mount Sinai .
By many interpretations , Acts and the Pauline Epistles make clear that the Jewish dietary laws as a whole are not binding on gentile Christians , though the Apostolic Decree which is still observed by the Orthodox includes some food restrictions .
Naturism Naturism is a cultural and political movement practising , advocating and defending social nudity in private and in public .
From early days , clothes-free beaches and other types of ad-hoc nudist activities have served those who wish to take part in naturist activities without belonging to any clubs .
Naturism can contain aspects of eroticism for some people , although many modern naturists and naturist organisations argue Naturism need not .
Textile is the predominant term used in the UK ( ` textilist ' is unknown in British naturist magazines including H&E naturist ) , although some naturists avoid Naturism due to perceived negative or derogatory connotations .
A United States study by Alfred Kinsey found that 75 % of the participants stated that there was never nudity in the home when Naturism were growing up , 5 % of the participants said that there was `` seldom '' nudity in the home , 3 % said `` often '' , and 17 % said that Naturism was `` usual '' .
A landed or members ' naturist club is one that owns Naturism own facilities , while non-landed ( or travel ) clubs meet at various locations , such as private residences , swimming pools , hot springs , landed clubs and resorts , and rented facilities .
At one end of the spectrum are the nudists who just enjoy a nude life style , and at the other are Naturism , who have deeply held beliefs and see communal nudity as just one of many important principles .
Nudity was not a new concept to the Greeks as the Olympic Games ( founded in 776 BC ) were exclusively male and nude events .
Germany published the first journal of nudism between 1902 and 1932 .
As the pop song `` Chałupy Welcome To '' ( about the naturist beach in Chałupy , featuring beach nudity in the clip ) became the 1985 summer hit in Poland , the nude seaside locations like Chałupy or Rowy became known to an average Polish sunbather .
Werner Zimmermann , a Swiss , was promoting Progressive education as far as to encouraging naked Physical education against body guilt : He sought to eliminate body guilt and encourage openness and end the repression of the human spirit , which he saw as the cause of sexual deviation .
Elsewhere in the United States , a 1935 advertisement claims Sea Island Sanctuary , South Carolina , was the `` largest and oldest '' resort where nudism could be practiced year-round .
The most significant clubs were the Van Tan Club , formed in 1939 , and continues today in North Vancouver , BC. , and , in Ontario , the Sun Air Club .
However , Naturism was when naturism arrived in the more sexually conservative cultures of the UK and the United States that the expression and discussion of eroticism within naturism became frowned upon '' '' .
The private Nordea was formed in 1986 at a merger between two smaller private local banks , Uplandsbanken and Sundsvallsbanken .
In other words , a subgroup H of a group G is normal in G if and only if gH = Hg for all g in G ( see coset ) .
A subgroup , N , of a group , G , is called a normal subgroup if Normal subgroup is invariant under conjugation ; that is , for each element n in N and each g in G , the element gng & minus ; 1 is still in N .
In fact , this correspondence is a bijection between the set of all quotient groups G/N of G and the set of all homomorphic images of G ( up to isomorphism ) .
Many Muslims believe that , after death , a person 's soul passes through a stage called barzakh , where Munkar and Nakir exists in the grave ( even if the person 's body was destroyed , the soul will still rest in the earth near their place of death ) .
A reliable pyrotechnic initiator , often based on thermite ( for ordinary napalm ) or white phosphorus ( for newer compositions ) , has been used .
In the European Theater of Operations napalm was used by American forces in the siege of La Rochelle in April 1945 against German soldiers ( and inadvertently French civilians in Royan ) - about two weeks before the end of the war .
Napalm was also used during the Greek Civil War between the Greek Army and Communist rebels .
These Allied ground forces in Korea were frequently outnumbered , and greatly , by their Chinese and North Korean attackers , but the U.S. Air Force and the U.S. Navy naval aviators had control of the air over nearly all of the Korean Peninsula .
By the 12th century , the peoples inhabiting the lands now known as Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania formed a pagan wedge between increasingly powerful rival Christian states -- the Greek Orthodox Church to their east and the Catholic Church to their west .
Pope Celestine III proclaimed a crusade against the Baltic heathens in 1195 , which was reiterated by Pope Innocent III and a crusading expedition led by Meinhard 's successor , Bishop Berthold of Hanover , landed in Livonia ( part of present-day Latvia , surrounding the Gulf of Riga ) in 1198 .
By the time Albert died 30 years later , the conquest and formal Christianisation of present-day Estonia and northern Latvia was complete .
At Albert 's request , Pope Innocent III dedicated the Baltic countries to the Virgin Mary to popularize recruitment to his army and the name `` Mary 's Land '' has survived up to modern times .
By 1211 , the Livonian province of Metsepole ( now Limbaži district ) and mixed Livonian-Latgallian inhabited county of Idumea ( now Straupe ) was converted to the Roman Catholic faith .
Masovia had only been conquered in the 10th century and native Prussians , Yotvingians , and Lithuanians were still living in the territory , where no settled borders existed .
Neoteny ( , or ) also called juvenilization , is one of the three ways by which paedomorphism can arise .
Neoteny is one of three dimensions of heterochrony , or the change in timing of developmental events : acceleration ( faster ) vs. neoteny ( slower ) , hypermorphosis ( further ) vs. progenesis ( not as far ) , and predisplacement ( begins earlier ) vs. postdisplacement ( begins later ) .
The word neoteny is borrowed from the German Neotenie , the latter constructed from the Greek νέος ( neos , young ) and τείνειν ( teínein , tend to ) .
These are Neoteny traits in humans : flattened face , broadened face , large brain , hairless body , hairless face , small nose , reduction of brow ridge , small teeth , small upper jaw ( maxilla ) , small lower jaw ( mandible ) , thinness of skull bones , limbs proportionately short compared to torso length , longer leg than arm length , larger eyes , and upright stance .
J.B.S. Haldane mirrors Gould 's hypothesis by stating a `` major evolutionary trend in human beings '' is `` greater prolongation of childhood and retardation of maturity '' .
Because of the importance of facial expression in the process of interactive signaling , Neoteny features , such as hair loss , allow for more efficient and rapid communication of socially important messages that are based on facially expressive emotional signaling .
Using a panel of `` Asian '' , `` Hispanic '' and `` White '' judges , Michael R. Cunningham found that the Asian , Hispanic and White female faces found most attractive were those that had `` neonate large eyes , greater distance between eyes , and small noses '' and his study led him to conclude that `` large eyes '' were the most `` effective '' of the `` neonate cues '' .
Ashley Montagu mirrored this statement when he stated that the `` Mongoloid skull , whether Chinese or Japanese '' is the most neotenized human skull .
`` The Mongoloid skull , whether Chinese or Japanese , has been rather more neotenized than the Caucasoid or European '' .
In Montagu 's list of `` neotenous structural traits in which Mongoloids ... differ from Caucasoids '' , Montagu lists `` Larger brain , larger braincase , broader skull , broader face , flat roof of the nose , inner eye fold , more protuberant eyes , lack of brow ridges , greater delicacy of bones , shallow mandibular fossa , small mastoid processes , stocky build , persistence of thymus gland into adult life , persistence of juvenile form of zygomatic muscle , persistence of juvenile form of superior lip muscle , later eruption of full dentition ( except second and third molars ) , less hairy , fewer sweat glands , fewer hairs per square centimeter and long torso '' .
Richard Grossinger claimed , `` The intuition that advanced human development was Neoteny rather than recapitulationary and accelerated was disturbing to many Eurocentric nineteenth century anthropologists '' .
The relatively large brain and the forward rotation of the skull on the spinal column , and body hair loss , both characteristic of humans , are found in foetal chimps .
Dr. Thomas LaMarre , professor of East Asian Studies and Art History at McGill University , claimed that after World War II , Japanese people as shown in their and became `` fascinated '' with neoteny and `` cuteness '' .
Neoteny physical traits in domesticated animals ( such as dogs , pigs , cats , ferrets , and recently foxes ) include floppy ears , changes in reproductive cycle , curly tails , piebald coloration , fewer or shortened vertebra , large eyes , rounded forehead , large ears and shortened muzzle .
National Rail is a title used to promote passenger railway services , and providing some harmonisation for passengers ( e.g.
Through tickets involving Heathrow Express and London Underground are also available .
Passengers without a valid ticket boarding a train at a station where ticket-buying facilities are available are required to pay the full Open Single or Return fare .
To this date , no naked singularities ( and no event horizons ) have been observed .
National Party of Australia was the major coalition party in Queensland between 1924 and 2008 , when National Party of Australia merged with the junior Queensland Division of the Liberal Party of Australia to form the Liberal National Party of Queensland ( LNP ) The party 's federal parliamentary leader since 3 December 2007 , following the coalition 's defeat at the 2007 federal election , is Warren Truss .
National Party of Australia is the major coalition party in Queensland between 1924 and 2008 .
Arcology , combining `` architecture '' and `` ecology '' , is a set of architectural design principles aimed toward the design of enormous habitats ( hyperstructures ) of extremely high human population density .
The base generates electricity with Arcology own power plant , and grows fruits and vegetables in a hydroponic green house , when resupply is nonexistent .
Arcology also appear in video games , such as SimCity 2000 , Escape Velocity Nova , , Call to Power II , Shadowrun , Mass Effect and '' SimCity ( 2013 video game ) .
Since the gels are fragile and the probes are unable to enter the matrix , the RNA samples , now separated by size , are transferred to a nylon membrane through a capillary or vacuum blotting system .
Since the large ribosomal subunit is 28S ( approximately 5kb ) and the small ribosomal subunit is 18S ( approximately 2kb ) two prominent bands will appear on the gel , the larger at close to twice the intensity of the smaller .
If an upregulated gene is observed by an abundance of mRNA on the northern blot the sample can then be sequenced to determine if the gene is known to researchers or if Northern blot is a novel finding .
The variance in size of a gene product can also indicate deletions or errors in transcript processing , by altering the probe target used along the known sequence it is possible to determine which region of the RNA is missing .
The advantage that microarrays have over northern blots is that thousands of genes can be visualized at a time , while northern blotting is usually looking at one or a small number of genes .
The advantages of using northern blotting include the detection of RNA size , the observation of alternate splice products , the use of probes with partial homology , the quality and quantity of RNA can be measured on the gel prior to blotting , and the membranes can be stored and reprobed for years after blotting .
A narrow gauge railway ( or narrow gauge railroad ) is a railway that has a track gauge narrower than the of standard gauge railways .
Most existing Narrow gauge railway have gauges of between and .
Narrow gauge railway also have specialized use in mines and other environments where a very small structure gauge makes a very small loading gauge necessary .
This is the case in some of Australia and most of Southern Africa , where extremely poor soils have led to population densities too low for standard gauge to be viable .
Thus it is expensive and inconvenient for the railway company to transfer passengers and freight between the two railway systems : the transfers require time consuming manual labour or substantial capital expenditure .
Queensland ) , South Africa and New Zealand show that if the track is built to a heavy-duty standard , performance almost as good as a standard gauge line is possible .
130 km of rural line between Port-au-Prince , Saint-Marc , and Verrettes ( 1905 -- about 1960s ) used gauge .
Built between 1912 and 1926 to haul sugar cane from farms to the sugar factory in Basseterre , since 2003 Narrow gauge railway has offered a 3.5 hour , 30-mile circle tour of the island on specially designed double-decker open-air coaches , with 12 miles of the trip being by bus .
In Maine , a network of gauge lines served the rural economy between the 1870s and 1940s .
The Old Patagonian Express ( La Trochita ) is a 402 km-long narrow gauge railway in the Andean foothills of Patagonia , now running as two portions of its original length , and only as a tourist attraction .
Narrow gauge railway previously operated between Rio Turbio and Rio Gallegos on track gauge .
A number of industrial ( a gauge Portland Cement line near São Paulo , for example ) and agricultural ( rubber plantations , sugar plantations , logging ) railways also existed in Brazil in a number of narrow gauges , but few of those survive today .
However , there is a short section used for industrial ( copper ) operations in the area between the station at Los Andes and the Río Blanco station .
Bangladesh , India , Pakistan and Sri Lanka inherited a diversity of rail gauges , some of which was .
The gauge Kunming-Hekou Railway ( previously known as Sino-Vietnamese Railway ) was built by French colonists between Vietnam and China .
The famous Hong Kong Tramways are gauge , and the territory 's metro , the MTR , runs on 1432 mm gauge except for the standard gauge KCR network Narrow gauge railway operates under a lease .
The majority of these are gauge or Metre gauge , totalling approximately 10,000 km of track .
Keretapi Tanah Melayu , the main railway operator in Peninsular Malaysia , uses metre gauge for the main west and east coast intercity lines , as well as railway lines spanning Singapore , from the Johor-Singapore Causeway to the Tanjong Pagar railway station .
Except for the Light Rail Transit ( LRT ) and Metro Rail Transit ( MRT ) systems in Metro Manila , which have both been constructed to the international standard gauge , the Philippine National Railways ( `` PNR '' ) uses the `` Cape Gauge '' of .
There are plans to restore the La Union line and to build new lines connecting Manila to Batangas and the international airport .
Narrow gauge railway are common in Africa , where great distances , challenging terrain and low funding have made Narrow gauge railway gauges attractive .
The railways of South Africa and many other African countries , including Angola , Botswana , Congo , Ghana , Mozambique , Namibia , Nigeria , Sudan , Zambia and Zimbabwe , use gauge , sometimes referred to as Narrow gauge railway .
In Tanzania former East African Railways lines are metre gauge while the TAZARA line is During the period of British colonisation of Africa , Cecil Rhodes advocated the construction of a Cape to Cairo railway , linking all British possessions along the eastern side of Africa between South Africa and Egypt .
However , with the development of a strong economy , with heavy export coal and iron ore traffic , and electrification of most main lines , South Africa , like Queensland , operates several narrow gauge trains that outdo most standard and broad gauge trains across the world .
The Avontuur Railway operates between Port Elizabeth and Avontuur in South Africa .
Sections of two lines ( Belgrave to Gembrook and Thomson to Walhalla ) have been restored as tourist railways .
Around 500 km of this track is electrified , on the North Island Main Trunk , between Palmerston North and Hamilton .
PGNAA is generally applied to elements with extremely high neutron capture cross-sections ; elements which decay too rapidly to be measured by DGNAA ; elements that produce only stable isotopes ; or elements with weak decay gamma ray intensities .
In some cases irradiated samples are subjected to chemical separation to remove interfering species or to concentrate the radioisotope of interest , this technique is known as Radiochemical Neutron Activation Analysis ( RNAA ) .
There are a number of detector types and configurations used in NAA .
The germanium is processed to form a p-i-n ( positive-intrinsic-negative ) diode , and when cooled to ~ 77 K by liquid nitrogen to reduce dark current and detector noise , produces a signal which is proportional to the photon energy of the incoming radiation .
An ordinary ( deterministic ) Turing machine ( DTM ) has a transition function that , for a given state and symbol under the tape head , specifies three things : the symbol to be written to the tape , the direction ( left or right ) in which the head should move , and the subsequent state of the finite control .
Another construction simulates NTMs with 3-tape DTMs , of which the first tape always holds the original input string , the second is used to simulate a particular computation of the NTM , and the third encodes a path in the NTM 's computation tree .
The Greek word ναρκωσις ( narcosis ) is derived from narke , `` temporary decline or loss of senses and movement , numbness '' , a term used by Homer and Hippocrates .
The noble gases , except helium and probably neon , as well as nitrogen , oxygen and hydrogen cause a decrement in mental function , but their effect on psychomotor function ( processes affecting the coordination of sensory or cognitive processes and motor activity ) varies widely .
After any change of depth , the pressure of gases in the blood passing through the brain catches up with ambient pressure within a minute or two , which results in a delayed narcotic effect after descending to a new depth .
Significant impairment due to narcosis is an increasing risk below depths of about 30 m ft sigfig = 1 abbr = on , corresponding to an ambient pressure of about , and at these depths narcosis does not present a significant risk .
Some divers report that Nitrogen narcosis have hearing changes , and that the sound Nitrogen narcosis exhaled bubbles make becomes different .
Experts recommend total abstinence from alcohol for at least 12 hours before diving , and longer for other drugs .
Walter Moxon ( 1836 -- 1886 ) , a prominent Victorian physician , hypothesized in 1881 that pressure forced blood to inaccessible parts of the body and the stagnant blood then resulted in emotional changes .
As hydrogen has only 0.55 the solubility of nitrogen , deep diving experiments using hydrox were conducted by Arne Zetterström between 1943 and 1945 .
This measures the relative concentration of different gases required to prevent motor response in 50 % of subjects in response to stimulus , and shows similar results for anesthetic potency as the measurements of lipid solubility .
The National Security Agency ( NSA ) is a cryptologic intelligence agency of the United States Department of Defense responsible for the collection and analysis of foreign communications and foreign signals intelligence , as well as protecting U.S. government communications and information systems , which involves information security and cryptanalysis/cryptography .
National Security Agency is a classified internal network , and TS/SCI .
In 2004 , NSA Central Security Service and the National Cyber Security Division of the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) agreed to expand NSA Centers of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education Program .
As part of the National Security Presidential Directive 54/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 23 ( NSPD 54 ) , signed on January 8 , 2008 by President Bush , the NSA became the lead agency to monitor and protect all of the federal government 's computer networks from cyber-terrorism .
NSA/CSS , in combination with the equivalent agencies in the United Kingdom ( Government Communications Headquarters ) , Canada ( Communications Security Establishment ) , Australia ( Defence Signals Directorate ) , and New Zealand ( Government Communications Security Bureau ) , otherwise known as the UKUSA group , is widely reported to be in command of the operation of the so-called ECHELON system .
However , NSA 's United States Signals Intelligence Directive 18 ( USSID 18 ) strictly prohibits the interception or collection of information about '' ... U.S. persons , entities , corporations or organizations ... '' without explicit written legal permission from the United States Attorney General when the subject is located abroad , or the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court when within U.S. Borders .
In addition , alleged ECHELON-related activities , including National Security Agency use for motives other than National Security Agency national security , including political and industrial espionage , have received criticism from countries outside the UKUSA alliance .
NSA 's mission , as set forth in Executive Order 12333 , is to collect information that constitutes `` foreign intelligence or counterintelligence '' while not `` acquiring information concerning the domestic activities of United States persons '' .
These activities , especially the publicly acknowledged domestic telephone tapping and call database programs , have prompted questions about the extent of the NSA 's activities and concerns about threats to privacy and the rule of law .
On December 16 , 2005 , the New York Times reported that , under White House pressure and with an executive order from President George W. Bush , National Security Agency , in an attempt to thwart terrorism , had been tapping phone calls made to persons outside the country , without obtaining warrants from the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court , a secret court created for that purpose under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ( FISA ) .
There was suspicion that these changes had weakened the algorithm sufficiently to enable the agency to eavesdrop if required , including speculation that a critical component -- the so-called S-boxes -- had been altered to insert a `` backdoor '' and that the reduction in key length might have made National Security Agency feasible for NSA to discover DES keys using massive computing power .
An attack for SHA-0 that does not apply to the revised algorithm was indeed found between 1998 and 2005 by academic cryptographers .
NSA/CSS has , at times , attempted to restrict the publication of academic research into cryptography ; for example , the Khufu and Khafre block ciphers were voluntarily withheld in response to an NSA request to do so .
The only multicellular animals that have no nervous system at all are sponges , placozoans and mesozoans , which have very simple body plans .
The nervous systems of ctenophores ( comb jellies ) and cnidarians ( e.g. , anemones , hydras , corals and jellyfishes ) consist of a diffuse nerve net .
All other types of animals , with the exception of a few types of worms , have a nervous system containing a brain , a central cord ( or two cords running in parallel ) , and nerves radiating from the brain and central cord .
Glial cells ( named from the Greek for `` glue '' ) are non-neuronal cells that provide support and nutrition , maintain homeostasis , form myelin , and participate in signal transmission in Nervous system .
A very important type of glial cell ( oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system , and Schwann cells in Nervous system ) generates layers of a fatty substance called myelin that wraps around axons and provides electrical insulation which allows them to transmit action potentials much more rapidly and efficiently .
The large majority of the axon bundles called nerves are considered to belong to the PNS , even when the cell bodies of the neurons to which Nervous system belong reside within the brain or spinal cord .
Grey matter ( which is only grey in preserved tissue , and is better described as pink or light brown in living tissue ) contains a high proportion of cell bodies of neurons .
Grey matter is found in clusters of neurons in the brain and spinal cord , and in cortical layers that line their surfaces .
There is an anatomical convention that a cluster of neurons in the brain or spinal cord is called a nucleus , whereas a cluster of neurons in the periphery is called a ganglion .
Most anatomists now consider that the bodies of protostomes and deuterostomes are `` flipped over '' with respect to each other , a hypothesis that was first proposed by Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire for insects in comparison to vertebrates .
In this species , Nervous system is sexually dimorphic ; the nervous systems of the two sexes , males and hermaphrodites , have different numbers of neurons and groups of neurons that perform sex-specific functions .
Arthropods , such as insects and crustaceans , have a nervous system made up of a series of ganglia , connected by a ventral nerve cord made up of two parallel connectives running along the length of the belly .
Functionally this is a fast escape response , triggered most easily by a strong sound wave or pressure wave impinging on the lateral line organ of the fish .
For example , release of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine at a synaptic contact between a motor neuron and a muscle cell induces rapid contraction of the muscle cell .
In fact , it is difficult to assign limits to the types of information processing that can be carried out by Nervous system networks : Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts showed in 1943 that even networks formed from a greatly simplified mathematical abstraction of a neuron are capable of universal computation .
However , experimental studies of electrophysiology , beginning in the early 20th century and reaching high productivity by the 1940s , showed that Nervous system contains many mechanisms for generating patterns of activity intrinsically , without requiring an external stimulus .
By the end of the process , input signals representing `` points of light '' have been transformed into a Nervous system representation of objects in the surrounding world and their properties .
When neurons that are intrinsically rhythmic are connected to each other by excitatory or inhibitory synapses , the resulting networks are capable of a wide variety of dynamical behaviors , including attractor dynamics , periodicity , and even chaos .
The sequence of stages from Nervous system plate to Nervous system tube and Nervous system crest is known as neurulation .
In the early 20th century , a set of famous experiments by Hans Spemann and Hilde Mangold showed that the formation of nervous tissue is `` induced '' by signals from a group of mesodermal cells called the organizer region .
Two proteins called Noggin and Chordin , both secreted by the mesoderm , are capable of inhibiting BMP4 and thereby inducing ectoderm to turn into Nervous system tissue .
In some animals , however , another type of molecule called Fibroblast Growth Factor or FGF may also play an important role in induction .
In drosophila , neuroblasts divide asymmetrically , so that one product is a `` ganglion mother cell '' ( GMC ) , and the other is a neuroblast .
As shown in a 2008 study , one factor common to all bilateral organisms ( including humans ) is a family of secreted signaling molecules called neurotrophins which regulate the growth and survival of neurons .
Chemically , the brain and spinal cord are isolated by the so-called blood -- brain barrier , which prevents most types of chemicals from moving from the bloodstream into the interior of the CNS .
Damage to nerves can also be caused by swelling or bruises at places where Nervous system passes through a tight bony channel , as happens in carpal tunnel syndrome .
Nutcrackers in the form of wooden carvings of a soldier , knight , king , or other profession have existed since at least the 15th century .
Carvings by famous names like Junghanel , Klaus Mertens , Karl , Olaf Kolbe , Petersen , Christian Ulbricht and especially the Steinbach nutcrackers have become collectors ' items .
Nikolaj Abraham Abildgaard ( September 11 , 1743 -- June 4 , 1809 ) , Danish artist , was born in Copenhagen , the son of Søren Abildgaard , an antiquarian draughtsman of repute , and Anne Margrethe Bastholm .
In the company of Swedish sculptor Johan Tobias Sergel and painter Johann Heinrich Füssli , Nikolaj Abraham Abildgaard began to move away from the classicism Nikolaj Abraham Abildgaard had learned at the Academy .
As a technical painter Nikolaj Abraham Abildgaard attained remarkable success , Nikolaj Abraham Abildgaard tone being very harmonious and even , but the effect , to a foreigner 's eye , is rarely interesting .
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa ( literally `` area of Pashtuns '' ) , formerly known as the North-West Frontier Province and alternatively known by various other names , is one of the four provinces of Pakistan , located in the north-west of the country .
Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan and his Khudai Khidmatgars , however , chose to boycott the polls along with other nationalistic and pro-India Pakhtuns .
The province has an area of 28,773 mi ² or ( 74,521 km ² ) -- comparable in size to New England in North America .
However , at elevations above , it is known that as much as a third of the snow which feeds the large Karakoram and Hindukush glaciers comes from the monsoon since these elevations are too high to be shielded from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa moisture .
Currently , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa accounts for 10 % of Pakistan 's GDP , 20 % of Pakistan 's mining output and , since 1972 , it has seen Khyber Pakhtunkhwa economy grow in size by 3.6 times .
The Frontier Post is perhaps the province 's best-known newspaper and addresses many of the issues facing the population .
Besides producing cricket players , Pakhtunkhwa has the honour of being the birthplace of many world-class squash players , including greats like Jansher Khan and Jahangir Khan.Jahangir Khan has a world record of 500 matches unbeaten .
Eight of Nilo-Saharan languages proposed constituent divisions ( excluding Kunama , Kuliak , and Songhay ) are found in the modern nation of Sudan , through which the Nile River flows .
The first inklings of Nilo-Saharan languages came in 1912 , when Diedrich Westermann included three of the ( still independent ) Central Sudanic families within Nilotic in a proposal he called Niloto-Sudanic ; this expanded Nilotic was in turn linked to Nubian , Kunama , and possibly Berta , essentially Greenberg 's Macro-Sudanic ( Chari -- Nile ) proposal of 1954 .
Koman and Gumuz remain poorly attested , and so are difficult to work with , while arguments continue over the inclusion of Songhai .
Blench ( 2010 ) believes that the distribution of Nilo-Saharan languages reflects the waterways of the wet Sahara 12,000 years ago , and that the protolanguage had noun classifiers , which today are reflected in a diverse range of prefixes , suffixes , and number marking .
Dimmendaal ( 2008 ) notes that Greenberg ( 1963 ) based his conclusion on sound evidence , and that the proposal as a whole has become more convincing in the decades since .
Also problematic are the Kuliak languages , which are spoken by hunter-gatherers and appear to retain a non-Nilo-Saharan core ; Blench believes they may have been similar to Hadza or Dahalo and shifted incompletely to Nilo-Saharan languages .
The extinct Meroitic language of ancient Kush has been accepted by linguists such as Rille , Dimmendaal , and Blench as Nilo-Saharan , though others argue for an Afroasiatic affiliation .
There is little doubt that the constituent families of Nilo-Saharan languages -- of which only Eastern Sudanic and Central Sudanic show much internal diversity -- are valid groups .
With a better understanding of Nilo-Saharan classifiers , and the affixes or number marking Nilo-Saharan languages have developed into in various branches , Blench believes that all of the families postulated as Nilo-Saharan belong together .
Mimi of Decorse In his non-peer reviewed 2001 reconstruction of Nilo-Saharan languages , circulated in manuscript form since 1984 and first published in 1989 , historian Christopher Ehret classifies the families in a radically different fashion , moving Koman to the periphery , Songhay deep into the family next to Maban , and Berta into East Sudanic : Blench notes that Ehret failed to consider existing scholarship , such as reconstructions of Proto-Central and Proto-Eastern Sudanic , and provided no evidence for his classification .
However , Blench ( 2011 ) proposed that the similarities between Niger -- Congo and Nilo-Saharan languages ( specifically Atlantic -- Congo and Central Sudanic ) are due to contact , with the noun-class system of Niger -- Congo developed from , or elaborated on the model of , the noun classifiers of Central Sudanic .
The entire nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) has a diameter of about 120 nanometers , the diameter of the opening ( functional diameter ) is about 9 nanometers wide and Nuclear pore `` depth '' is about 200 nanometers .
Some molecules or macromolecular complexes need to be exported from the nucleus to the cytoplasm , as do ribosome subunits and messenger RNAs .
The complex can then diffuse to the cytoplasm where GTP is hydrolysed and the NES-protein is released .
As the immunodepletion of certain protein complexes , such as the Nup 107 -- 160 complex , leads to the formation of poreless nuclei , it seems likely that the Nup complexes are involved in fusing the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope with the inner and not that the fusing of Nuclear pore begins the formation of Nuclear pore .
RNA polymerase I transcribes most rRNA transcripts ( 28S , 18S , and 5.8 S ) but the 5S rRNA subunit ( component of the 60S ribosomal subunit ) is transcribed by RNA polymerase III .
In higher eukaryotes and plants , the situation is more complex , for the 5S DNA sequence lies outside the NOR and is transcribed by RNA pol III in the nucleoplasm , after which Nucleolus finds Nucleolus way into the nucleolus to participate in the ribosome assembly .
A continuous chain between the nucleoplasm and the inner parts of Nucleolus exists through a network of Nucleolus channels .
One carries charge and the other does not ; proton 's mass is only 0.1 % less than neutron 's .
This means Nucleon are fermions not bosons , and therefore , like electrons , Nucleon are subject to the Pauli exclusion principle .
Another reason that the spin of the proton and neutron is important is because Nucleon is the source of nuclear spin in larger nuclei .
The other members of this octet are the hyperons strange isotriplet , , , the and the strange isodoublet , .
Several other properties of the chiral bag are notable : Nucleon provides a better fit to the low energy nucleon properties , to within 5 -- 10 % , and these are almost completely independent of the chiral bag radius ( as long as the radius is less than the nucleon radius ) .
Chauvin 's distinguished record of service and Nicolas Chauvin love and devotion for Napoleon , which endured despite the price Nicolas Chauvin willingly paid for them , is said to have earned Nicolas Chauvin only ridicule and derision in Restoration France , when Bonapartism became increasingly unpopular .
Nicotinamide , also known as niacinamide and nicotinic acid amide , is the amide of nicotinic acid ( vitamin B3 / niacin ) .
These conditions include acne vulgaris , and the compound can suppress antigen-induced , lymphocytic transformation and inhibit 3 ' -5 ' cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase .
Nicomide is the name of an acne medication and , in Nicotinamide vitamin supplement form , the most predominant ingredient is 750 mg of nicotinamide , based on this area of research .
Also , Nicotinamide is used topically as a 4 % or 5 % gel or cream - as effective as topical 1 % clindamycin ( 8-week double-blind trial ) performed at the New York University College of Medicine .
The Amstrad CPC ( short for Colour Personal Computer ) is a series of 8-bit home computers produced by Amstrad between 1984 and 1990 .
Additionally , a wide range of first and third party hardware extensions such as external disk drives , printers , and memory extensions , was available .
The comparatively low price for a complete computer system with dedicated monitor , Amstrad CPC high resolution monochrome text and graphic capabilities and the possibility to run CP/M software also rendered the system attractive for business users , which was reflected by a wide selection of application software .
Aside from various hardware and firmware improvements , one of the CPC6128 's most prominent features is the compatibility with the CP/M + operating system that rendered Amstrad CPC attractive for business uses .
Imported and distributed by Indescomp , Inc. of Chicago , it was the first Amstrad product to be sold in the United States , a market that at the time was traditionally hostile towards European computer manufacturers .
The redesigned video hardware allows for hardware sprites and soft scrolling , with a colour palette extended from a maximal 16 colours ( plus separately definable border ) at one time from a choice of 27 , increased to a maximal 32 out of 4096 .
Instead , Amstrad provided the firmware for both models via the ROM extension facility , contained on the included Burnin ' Rubber and Locomotive BASIC cartridge .
This resulted in reduced hardware localization cost ( only some select key caps and case labels had to be localized ) with the added benefit of a rudimentary copy protection mechanism ( without a firmware present , the machine Amstrad CPC could not copy a game cartridge 's content ) .
This base memory can be extended by up to 512 kB using memory expansions sold by third-party manufacturers , and by up to 4096 kB using experimental methods developed by hardware enthusiasts .
Underlying a CPC 's video output is the unusual pairing of a CRTC ( Motorola 6845 or compatible ) with a custom-designed gate array to generate a pixel display output .
The chosen drive ( built-in for later models ) is a single-sided 40-track unit that requires the user to physically remove and flip the disc to access the other side .
Amstrad CPC features are not fully used in order to cut costs , namely DMA transfers and support for single density discs ; Amstrad CPC were formatted as double density using modified frequency modulation .
This , combined with their low nominal capacities and their essentially proprietary nature , led to the format being discontinued shortly after the CPC Amstrad CPC was discontinued .
Programs such as ROMDOS and ParaDOS extend the standard AMSDOS system to provide support for double-sided , 80-track formats , enabling up to 800 kB to be stored on a single disc .
A separate version of the ROM was created for the U.S. market due to the use of the commands '' SUCK '' and '' BLOW '' , which were considered unacceptable there .
In order to market Amstrad CPC computers in Germany , Austria , and Switzerland where Amstrad did not have any distribution structures , Amstrad entered a partnership with Schneider Rundfunkwerke AG , a German company that - very much like Amstrad Amstrad CPC - was previously only known for value-priced audio products .
The PCW was originally developed to be partly compatible with an improved version of the CPC ( ANT , or Arnold Number Two - the CPC 's development codename was Arnold ) .
Amstrad CPC is a series of 8-bit home computers produced by Amstrad between 1984 and 1990 .
The was a table-top video game console developed and manufactured by Nintendo .
Yokoi , the system 's inventor , noted the system 's strengths with action and puzzle games , although those types of games provided only minimal immersion .
The Virtual Boy failed for a number of reasons , among them `` Virtual Boy high price , the discomfort caused by play ... and what was widely judged to have been a poorly handled marketing campaign '' .
Bill Frischling , writing for The Washington Post , experienced `` dizziness , nausea and headaches '' .
Further , Miyamoto stated that the graphics were not as appealing , and while developing the Nintendo 64 , had ruled out the use of wireframe graphics as too sparse to draw players .
( Although Waterworld and Faceball were going to use the EXT port for multiplayer play , the multiplayer features in the former were removed and the latter was canceled .
Virtual Boy is a table-top video game console developed and manufactured by Nintendo .
A specific stream , analogous to a TCP/IP port or socket , is specified by using a Transport Service Access Point ( TSAP ) .
NR-1 Deep Submergence Craft unique capability to remain at one site and completely map or search an area with a high degree of accuracy was a valuable asset on several occasions .
In 1995 , Dr. Robert Ballard used the NR-1 and NR-1 Deep Submergence Craft support ship , the MV Carolyn Chouest , to explore the wreck of the HMHS Britannic , the sister ship of the RMS Titanic , which sank off the coast of Greece while serving as a hospital ship during World War I .
On 25 February 2007 , NR-1 Deep Submergence Craft NR-1 Deep Submergence Craft , arrived in Galveston , Texas , in preparation for an expedition to survey the Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary and other sites in the Gulf of Mexico .
The vehicle had diving planes mounted on the sail , and a conventional rudder .
Between August 1966 and May 1970 , Neil Kinnock worked as a tutor for a Workers ' Educational Association ( WEA ) .
Neil Kinnock first period as party leader -- between the 1983 and 1987 elections -- was dominated by Neil Kinnock struggle with the hard left , then still strong in the party .
Kinnock explained Neil Kinnock change of attitude , despite the continuing presence of 90 hereditary peers and appointment by patronage , by asserting that the Lords was a good base for campaigning .
Neil Kinnock peerage meant that the Labour and Conservative parties were equal in numbers in the upper house of Parliament ( since then , the number of Labour members has overtaken the number of Conservative members ) .
Netscape Communications ( formerly known as Netscape Communications Corporation and commonly known as Netscape ) is a US computer services company , best known for Netscape Navigator , Netscape web browser .
During the acquisition of Netscape by AOL , joint development and marketing of Netscape software products would occur through the Sun-Netscape Alliance .
In 1998 , an informal group called the Mozilla Organization was formed and largely funded by Netscape ( the vast majority of programmers working on the code were paid by Netscape ) to co-ordinate the development of Netscape 5 ( codenamed `` Gromit '' ) , which would be based on the Communicator source code .
Netscape 7.1 ( codenamed `` Buffy '' and based on Mozilla 1.4 ) was released in June 2003 .
Between 2005 and 2007 , Netscape 's releases became known as Netscape Browser .
was released on April 2 , 2007 , and included general bug fixes identified in versions 8.0 -- 8.1.2
Between June 2006 and September 2007 , AOL operated Netscape 's website as social news website similar to Digg .
Netscape NewsQuake ( formally Netscape Reports ) is Netscape 's news and opinion blog , including video clips and discussions .
Netscape ISP 's advertising is generally aimed at a younger demographic , e.g. , college students , and people just out of school , as an affordable way to gain access to the Internet .
Netscape 's exclusive features , such as the Netscape NewsQuake Netscape Navigator My Netscape and Netscape Community pages , are less accessible from the AOL Netscape designed portal and in some countries not accessible at all without providing a full URL or completing an Internet search .
, Netscape original domain name ) , is a multilingual open content directory of World Wide Web links owned by Netscape that is constructed and maintained by a community of volunteer editors .
Abdulaziz al-Omari was a Saudi airport security guard and Imam , best known for being one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 11 as part of the September 11 attacks .
Abdulaziz al-Omari is a Saudi airport security guard and Imam , best known for being one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 11 as part of the September 11 attacks .
Newfoundland and Labrador is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous , with 97.6 % of residents reporting English ( Newfoundland English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ; .
Historically , Newfoundland was also home to unique varieties of French , and Irish , as well as the now-extinct Beothuk language .
Newfoundland extends between latitudes 46 ° 36 ′ N and 51 ° 38 ′ N. Labrador is an irregular shape : the western part of its border with Quebec is the drainage divide of the Labrador Peninsula .
Gros Morne National Park has a reputation as an outstanding example of tectonics at work , and as such has been designated a World Heritage Site .
Surface water temperatures on the Atlantic side reach a summer average of 12 ° C inshore and 9 ° C offshore to winter lows of -1 ° C inshore and 2 ° C offshore .
In addition to the district councils , the Mi ` kmaq tribes also had ( have ) a Grand Council or Santé Mawiómi that according to oral tradition was formed before 1600 .
Though English fishing boats had visited Newfoundland continuously since Cabot 's second voyage in 1498 and seasonal fishing camps had existed for a century prior , similar was true of French , Portuguese , and Basque ships and camps , thus pressure to secure the island from foreign control led to the appointment of Proprietary Governors to establish colonial settlements on the island from 1610 to 1728 .
Heavy investment by Sir George Calvert , 1st Baron Baltimore , in the 1620s in wharves , warehouses , and fishing stations failed to pay off .
In 1855 , Philip Francis Little , a native of Prince Edward Island , won a parliamentary majority over Sir Hugh Hoyles and the Conservatives .
Despite people 's pride in the accomplishments of the regiment , the Dominion 's war debt due to the regiment and the cost of maintaining a trans-island railway led to increased and ultimately unsustainable government debt in the post-war era .
Since the early 1800s , Newfoundland and Quebec ( or Lower Canada ) had been in a border dispute over the Labrador region .
Chaired by Judge Cyril J. Fox , Newfoundland and Labrador consisted of 45 elected members , one of whom was the future first premier of Newfoundland , Joey Smallwood .
The phrase New Latin , or New Latin , is used to describe the Latin language used in original works created between c. 1500 and c. 1900 .
The term `` New Latin '' came into widespread use towards the end of the 1890s among linguists and scientists .
New Latin was , at least in New Latin early days , an international language used throughout Catholic and Protestant Europe , as well as in the colonies of the major European powers .
New Latin was inaugurated by the triumph of the humanist reform of Latin education , led by such writers as Erasmus , More , and Colet .
While accepting many of the strengths of Medieval Latin , the humanist reformers sought both to purify Latin grammar and style , and to make Latin applicable to concerns beyond the ecclesiastical , creating a body of Latin literature outside the bounds of the Church .
The period during and after the Reformation , coinciding with the growth of printed literature , saw the growth of an immense body of New Latin literature , on all kinds of secular as well as religious subjects .
The heyday of New Latin was New Latin first two centuries ( 1500 -- 1700 ) , when in the continuation of the Medieval Latin tradition , New Latin served as the lingua franca of science , education , and to some degree diplomacy in Europe .
As New Latin was gradually abandoned by various fields , and as less written material appeared in New Latin , there was less of a practical reason for anyone to bother to learn Latin ; as fewer people knew Latin , there was less reason for material to be written in the language .
As languages like French , German , and English became more widely known , use of a ` difficult ' auxiliary language seemed unnecessary -- while the argument that Latin could expand readership beyond a single nation was fatally weakened if , in fact , Latin readers did not compose a majority of the intended audience .
The last survivals of New Latin to convey non-technical information appear in the use of Latin to cloak passages and expressions deemed too indecent ( in the 19th century ) to be read by children , the lower classes , or ( most ) women .
Ecclesiastical Latin , the form of New Latin used in the Roman Catholic Church , remained in use throughout the period and after .
New Latin is today still the official language of the Church , and all Catholic priests of the Latin liturgical rites are required by canon law to have competency in the language , although most do not .
Use of Latin in the Mass , largely abandoned through the later 20th century , has recently seen a resurgence , due in large part to Pope Benedict XVI 's motu proprio Summorum Pontificum and New Latin use by traditional Catholic priests and their organizations .
New Latin is also the source of the biological system of binomial nomenclature and classification of living organisms devised by Carolus Linnæus , although the rules of the ICZN allow the construction of names that deviate considerably from historical norms .
Another continuation is the use of Latin names for the surface features of planets and planetary satellites ( planetary nomenclature ) , originated in the mid-17th century for selenographic toponyms .
New Latin has also contributed a vocabulary for specialized fields such as anatomy and law ; some of these words have become part of the normal , non-technical vocabulary of various European languages .
The major division is between Western and Eastern family of New Latin .
In spelling , New Latin , in all but the earliest texts , distinguishes the letter u from v and i from j .
In older texts printed down to c. 1630 , v was used in initial position ( even when New Latin represented a vowel , e.g. in vt , later printed ut ) and u was used elsewhere , e.g. in nouus , later printed novus .
By the mid-17th century , the letter v was commonly used for the consonantal sound of Roman V , which in most pronunciations of Latin in the New Latin period was ( and not ) , as in vulnus `` wound '' , corvus `` crow '' .
Atmospheric nitrogen or molecular nitrogen ( N2 ) is relatively inert : Nitrogen fixation does not easily react with other chemicals to form new compounds .
Nitrogen fixation , natural and synthetic , is essential for all forms of life because nitrogen is required to biosynthesize basic building blocks of plants , animals and other life forms , e.g. , nucleotides for DNA and RNA and amino acids for proteins .
Some higher plants , and some animals ( termites ) , have formed associations ( symbioses ) with diazotrophs .
When the plant dies , the fixed nitrogen is released , making Nitrogen fixation available to other plants and this helps to fertilize the soil .
In many traditional and organic farming practices , fields are rotated through various types of crops , which usually includes one consisting mainly or entirely of clover or buckwheat ( non-legume family Polygonaceae ) , which are often referred to as `` green manure '' .
Egocentric navigation causes high levels of activation in the right parietal lobe and prefrontal regions of the brain which are involved in visuospatial processing .
Naguib Mahfouz served in the Ministry of Mortmain Endowments , then as Director of Censorship in the Bureau of Art , as Director of the Foundation for the Support of the Cinema , and finally as a consultant to the Ministry of Culture .
Mahfouz believed in freedom of expression and although Naguib Mahfouz did not personally agree with Rushdie 's work , Naguib Mahfouz did not believe that there should be a fatwa condemning Naguib Mahfouz to death for it .
Naguib Mahfouz written works covered a broad range of topics , including socialism , homosexuality , and God .
The Children of Gebelawi ( 1959 , also known as `` Children of our Alley '' ) one of Mahfouz 's best known works , has been banned in Egypt for alleged blasphemy over its allegorical portrayal of God and the monotheistic Abrahamic faiths of Judaism , Christianity , and Islam , until the ban was released in 2006 .
Akhenaten , Dweller in Truth ( 1985 ) is about conflict between old and new religious truths .
Many of Naguib Mahfouz novels were first published in serialized form , including Children of Gebelawi and Midaq Alley which was adapted into a Mexican film starring Salma Hayek ( El callejón de los milagros ) .
Mahfouz 's stories are almost always set in the heavily populated urban quarters of Cairo , where Naguib Mahfouz characters , mostly ordinary people , try to cope with the modernization of society and the temptations of Western values .
The Politburo , as part of Nomenklatura nomenklatura authority , maintained a list of ministerial and ambassadorial positions that Nomenklatura had the power to fill , as well as a separate list of potential candidates to occupy those positions .
The presence of patron -- client relations between party officials and officials in other bureaucracies also helped to account for the large-scale control the party exercised over the Soviet society .
Andrei P. Kirilenko , a Politburo member and Central Committee secretary under Brezhnev , was first secretary of the regional committee of Dnipropetrovsk .
This leads to an increased probability that the same network will respond to similar or identical signals at a future time .
Neil Ellwood Peart , , is a Canadian musician and author .
The first child of four , Neil Peart brother Danny and sisters Judy and Nancy were born after the family moved to St. Catharines when Peart was two .
Neil Peart had a penchant for drumming on various objects around the house with a pair of chopsticks , so for Neil Peart 13th birthday , Neil Peart parents bought Neil Peart a pair of drum sticks , a practice drum and some lessons , with the promise that if Neil Peart stuck with it for a year , they would buy Neil Peart a kit .
Neil Peart worked on the Bubble Game and Ball Toss , but Neil Peart tendency to take it easy when business was slack resulted in Neil Peart termination .
While Lee and Neil Peart hit it off on a personal level ( both sharing similar tastes in books and music ) , Lifeson had a less favourable impression of Neil Peart .
The band was working hard to establish themselves as a recording act , and Neil Peart , along with the rest of the band , began to undertake extensive touring .
Neil Peart first recording with the band , 1975 's Fly by Night , was fairly successful , winning the Juno Award for most promising new act , but the follow-up , Caress of Steel , for which the band had high hopes , was greeted with hostility by both fans and critics .
As a result , more diversity of belief and practice is to be found among Old Catholic Church churches than is characteristic of the Roman Catholic Church or the Eastern Orthodox churches .
Old Catholic Church often refer to the Church Father St. Vincent of Lerins and his saying : `` We must hold fast to that faith which has been believed everywhere , always , and by all the Faithful '' .
In the 12th century , there occurred the Investiture Controversy where the Holy Roman Emperor and the Pope fought over who could appoint Bishops .
Philip of Burgundy , 57th Bishop of Utrecht ( 1517 -- 1524 ) , through a family connection with Charles V , Holy Roman Emperor , secured a significant concession from Pope Leo X , granting internal autonomy in both church and temporal affairs for himself and his successors without interference from outside their jurisdictional region .
Protestants occupied most church buildings , and those remaining were confiscated by the government of the Dutch Republic of Seven Provinces , which favoured Calvinism .
The popes took advantage of the failure of Utrecht , and the person named as apostolic vicar was derided by Rome as the Archbishop of Utrecht in partibus infidelium .
Many clergy and lay people of Utrecht did not want to become one more formerly autonomous jurisdiction now under Roman control , however , many did .
These were supported by the Old Catholic Archbishop of Utrecht , who ordained priests and bishops for Old Catholic Church .
The most notable leader of the movement , though maintaining a certain distance from Old Catholic Church as an institution , was the renowned church historian and priest Johann Joseph Ignaz von Döllinger ( 1799 -- 1890 ) , who had been excommunicated by the pope because of his support for the affair .
The churches which broke from the Holy See in 1870 and subsequently entered into union with Old Catholic Church See of Utrecht gradually introduced the vernacular into the Liturgy until it completely replaced Latin in 1877 .
In Austrian territories , pan-Germanic nationalist groups , like those of Georg Ritter von Schönerer , promoted the conversion to Old Catholic Church or Lutheranism of those Catholics loyal to the Holy See .
From this the Old Catholic Church in the United States evolved into local and regional self-governing dioceses and provinces along the design of St. Ignatius of Antioch - a network of Communities .
The purpose was to find out how Old Catholic Church identify as Old Catholics , their understanding of Old Catholic ecclesiology , and whether Old Catholic Church ordain women .
This speaks primarily to the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox churches as well as the Church of the East , but also to `` separated churches in the West '' , which is understood to be a reference to the Old Catholic Communion .
Oliver Lieb ( born December 31 , 1969 , Frankfurt , Germany ) is a German electronic music producer and DJ .
In 2000 , and using Oliver Lieb own name , Oliver Lieb appeared in the UK Singles Chart for one week at 72 with the track `` Metropolis '' , billed as ` Oliver Lieb presents Smoked ' .
Alexander V died soon after , and on 25 May 1410 Cossa was consecrated pope , taking the name John XXIII .
John XXIII was acknowledged as pope by France , England , Bohemia , Prussia , Portugal , parts of the Holy Roman Empire , and numerous Northern Italian city states , including Florence and Venice ; however , the Avignon Pope Benedict XIII was regarded as pope by the Kingdoms of Aragon , Castile , Sicily and Scotland and Gregory XII was still favored by Ladislaus of Naples , Carlo I Malatesta , the princes of Bavaria , Louis III , Elector Palatine , and parts of Germany and Poland .
Antipope John XXIII is one of the seven cardinals who , in May 1408 , deserted Pope Gregory XII , and , with those following Antipope Benedict XIII from Avignon .
The Oort cloud ( named after Jan Oort ) , or Öpik -- Oort cloud , is a hypothesized spherical cloud of predominantly icy planetesimals that may lie roughly 50,000 AU , or nearly a light-year , from the Sun .
The Kuiper belt and the scattered disc , the other two reservoirs of trans-Neptunian objects , are less than one thousandth of Oort cloud distance .
Astronomers believe that the matter composing Oort cloud formed closer to the Sun and was scattered far out into space by the gravitational effects of the giant planets early in the Solar System 's evolution.We know that stars form in clusters .
Although no confirmed direct observations of the Oort cloud have been made , astronomers believe that Oort cloud is the source of all long-period and Halley-type comets entering the inner Solar System and many of the centaurs and Jupiter-family comets as well .
Simulations of the evolution of the Oort cloud from the beginnings of the Solar System to the present suggest that Oort cloud mass peaked around 800 million years after formation , as the pace of accretion and collision slowed and depletion began to overtake supply .
In June 2010 Harold F. Levison and others suggested on the basis of enhanced computer simulations that the Sun `` captured comets from other stars while Oort cloud was in Oort cloud birth cluster '' .
Oort noted that the number of returning comets was far less than his model predicted , and this issue , known as `` cometary fading '' , has yet to be resolved .
However , to date no evidence of Nemesis has been found , and many lines of evidence ( such as crater counts ) , have thrown Oort cloud existence into doubt .
One all-sky survey using parallax measurements in order to clarify local star distances , the WISE mission , is currently underway with part of Oort cloud mission being to help with either proving or disproving the Tyche hypothesis .
Oort cloud is a hypothesized spherical cloud of predominantly icy planetesimals that may lie roughly 50,000 AU , or nearly a light-year , from the Sun .
Oort cloud is the product of an exchange of materials between the Sun and its sister stars .
After European-American settlement , Ohio River served at times as a border between present-day Kentucky and Indian Territories .
From there , Ohio River forms the border between West Virginia and Ohio , upstream of Wheeling , West Virginia .
The river then follows a roughly southwest and then west-northwest course until Cincinnati , before bending to a west-southwest course for most of Ohio River length .
Ohio River formed on a piecemeal basis beginning between 2.5 and 3 million years ago .
Prior to that event , the north-flowing Steubenville River ( no longer in existence ) ended between New Martinsville and Paden City , West Virginia .
Exploration of the territory and trade with the Indians in the region near the Forks by British colonials from Pennsylvania and Virginia - both of which claimed the territory - led to conflict with the French .
This provided a much-needed export route for goods from the west , since the trek east over the Appalachian Mountains was long and arduous .
Because Ohio River is the southern border of Ohio , Indiana and Illinois , it was part of the border between free states and slave states in the years before the American Civil War .
The expression `` sold down the river '' originated as a lament of Upper South slaves , especially from Kentucky , who were shipped via the Ohio and Mississippi to cotton and sugar plantations in the Deep South .
She also composed the libretto for the opera Margaret Garner ( 2005 ) , based on the life and trial of an enslaved woman who escaped with her family across Ohio River .
The U.S. Supreme Court held that Kentucky 's jurisdiction ( and , implicitly , that of West Virginia ) extended only to the low-water mark of 1793 ( important because Ohio River has been extensively dammed for navigation , so that the present river bank is north of the old low-water mark .
Ohio River as a whole is ranked as the most polluted river in the US based on 2009 and 2010 data although the more industrial and regional Ohio tributary , Monongahela River , ranked behind 16 other American rivers for pollution at number 17 .
The maximum depth is below the McAlpine Locks and Dam at the Falls of the Ohio at Louisville , Kentucky , where flood stage is reached when the water reaches on the lower gauge .
Water levels for Ohio River from Smithland Lock and Dam upstream to Pittsburgh are predicted daily by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 's Ohio River Forecast Center The water levels for Ohio River from Smithland Lock and Dam to Cairo , Illinois , are predicted by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 's Lower Mississippi River Forecast Center .
Oland (Frisian island) ( , North Frisian : Ualöönist ) is a small hallig which is connected by a narrow gauge railway to Oland (Frisian island) and to hallig Langeneß .
Oland (Frisian island) is a small hallig which is connected by a narrow gauge railway to the mainland and to hallig Langeneß .
The larger Organelle , such as the nucleus and vacuoles , are easily visible with the light microscope .
Mitochondria and chloroplasts , which have double-membranes and their own DNA , are believed to have originated from incompletely consumed or invading prokaryotic organisms , which were adopted as a part of Organelle .
Some methods were proposed for predicting the organelle in which an uncharacterized protein is located according to Organelle amino acid composition and some methods were based on pseudo amino acid composition .
The collaboration between IBM and Microsoft unravelled in 1990 , between the releases of Windows 3.0 and OS/2 1.3 .
OS/2 provided a 32-bit API for native programs , though the OS OS/2 still contained some 16-bit code and drivers .
This included an extensive set of configuration options to optimize the performance and capabilities given to each DOS program .
Later , release 3.0 leveraged the enhancements of newer Intel 486 and Intel Pentium processors -- the Virtual Interrupt Flag ( VIF ) , which was part of the Virtual Mode Extensions ( VME ) -- to solve this problem .
The second and last time OS/2 was shown in public was at an OS/2 user group in Phoenix AZ , where the pre-alpha code refused to boot .
WPS is an object-oriented shell allowing the user to perform traditional computing tasks such as accessing files , printers , launching legacy programs , and advanced object oriented tasks using built-in and third-party application objects that extended the shell in an integrated fashion not available on any other mainstream operating system .
OS/2 is a guest on those versions of VirtualPC that use virtualization ( x86 based hosts ) and not those doing full emulation ( VirtualPC for Mac ) .
Antonio Salieri ( 18 August 1750 -- 7 May 1825 ) was an Italian classical composer , conductor and teacher born in Legnago , south of Verona , in the Republic of Venice , but who spent Antonio Salieri adult life and career as a faithful subject of the Habsburg monarchy .
As a student of Florian Leopold Gassmann , and a protégé of Gluck , Antonio Salieri was a cosmopolitan composer who wrote operas in three languages .
Salieri helped to develop and shape many of the features of operatic compositional vocabulary and Antonio Salieri music was a powerful influence on contemporary composers .
It was through Pacini that Salieri gained the attention of the composer Florian Leopold Gassmann , who , impressed with Antonio Salieri talents and concerned for Antonio Salieri future , took the young orphan to Vienna where Antonio Salieri personally directed and paid for the remainder of Antonio Salieri musical education .
Gassmann 's first act was to take Salieri to the Italian Church to consecrate Antonio Salieri teaching and service to God , an event that left a deep impression on Salieri for the rest of Antonio Salieri life .
Antonio Salieri music studies revolved around vocal composition , and thoroughbass .
Antonio Salieri musical theory training in harmony and counterpoint was rooted in Johann Fux 's Gradus ad Parnassum , which Salieri translated during each Latin lesson .
Among these sacred works there survives a Mass in C major written without a `` Gloria '' and in the antique a cappella style ( presumably for one of the church 's penitential seasons ) and dated 2 August 1767 .
This was the beginning of a relationship between monarch and musician that would last until Joseph 's death in 1790 .
From Milan Salieri included stops in Venice and Rome and finally a return to Milan .
During this period of imperial change in Vienna and revolutionary ferment in France , Antonio Salieri composed two additional extremely innovative musical dramas to libretti by Giovanni Casti .
This resulted in two of Antonio Salieri most original operas being consigned to Antonio Salieri desk drawer , namely Cublai , gran kan de ' Tartari ( Kublai Grand Kahn of Tartary ) a satire on the autocracy and court intrigues at the court of the Russian Czarina , Catherine the Great , and Catilina ( Cataline ) a semi-comic-semi-tragic account of the Catiline conspiracy that attempted to overthrow the Roman republic during the consulship of Cicero .
Of Antonio Salieri late works for the stage only two works gained wide popular esteem during Antonio Salieri life , Palmira , regina di Persia ( Palmira , Queen of Persia ) 1795 and Cesare in Farmacusa ( Caesar on Pharmacusa ) , both drawing on the heroic and exotic success established with Axur .
Antonio Salieri late opera based on William Shakespeare 's The Merry Wives of Windsor , Falstaff ossia Le tre burle ( Falstaff , or the Three Tricks ) , ( 1799 ) has found a wider audience in modern times than its original reception promised .
Organization of Asia-Pacific News Agencies ( OANA ) is an association of news agencies from UNESCO ( United Nations Educational , Scientific and Cultural Organization ) member states in the Asia-Pacific region .
Oliver Cromwell ( 25 April 1599 -- 3 September 1658 ) was an English military and political leader and later Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England , Scotland and Ireland .
During this period a series of Penal Laws were passed against Roman Catholics ( a significant minority in England and Scotland but the vast majority in Ireland ) , and a substantial amount of their land was confiscated .
Oliver Cromwell also led a campaign against the Scottish army between 1650 and 1651 .
Cromwell probably returned home to Huntingdon after Oliver Cromwell father 's death , for Oliver Cromwell mother was widowed and Oliver Cromwell seven sisters were unmarried , and Oliver Cromwell , therefore , was needed at home to help Oliver Cromwell family .
The language of this letter , which is saturated with biblical quotations and which represents Cromwell as having been saved from sin by God 's mercy , places Oliver Cromwell faith firmly within the Independent beliefs that the Reformation had not gone far enough , that much of England was still living in sin , and that Catholic beliefs and practices needed to be fully removed from the church .
This forced members of the House of Commons and the Lords , such as Manchester , to choose between civil office and military command .
All of them -- except Oliver Cromwell , whose commission was given continued extensions and was allowed to remain in parliament -- chose to renounce their military positions .
This facilitated further engagements in short order , which allowed greater intensity and quick reaction to battle developments .
Many in the army , such as the Levellers led by John Lilburne , thought this was not enough and demanded full political equality for all men , leading to tense debates in Putney during the autumn of 1647 between Fairfax , Oliver Cromwell and Ireton on the one hand , and radical Levellers like Colonel Rainsborough on the other .
The debates , and the escape of Charles I from Hampton Court on 12 November , are likely to have hardened Oliver Cromwell resolve against the king .
At Preston , Oliver Cromwell , in sole command for the first time and with an army of 9,000 , won a brilliant victory against an army twice as large .
This letter suggests that it was Cromwell 's faith , rather than a commitment to radical politics , coupled with Parliament 's decision to engage in negotiations with the king at the Treaty of Newport , that convinced Oliver Cromwell that God had spoken against both the king and Parliament as lawful authorities .
On the day after Pride 's Purge , Oliver Cromwell became a determined supporter of those pushing for the king 's trial and execution , believing that killing Charles was the only way to end the civil wars .
In the early months after the execution of Charles Oliver Cromwell , Cromwell tried but failed to unite the original group of ` Royal Independents ' centred around St John and Saye and Sele , which had fractured during 1648 .
Oliver Cromwell and the rest of the Grandees disagreed with these sentiments in that they gave too much freedom to the people ; they believed that the vote should only extend to the landowners .
Other historians , however , cite Cromwell 's contemporary reports to London including that of 27 September 1649 in which Oliver Cromwell lists the slaying of 3,000 military personnel , followed by the phrase `` and many inhabitants '' .
On the other hand , the worst atrocities committed in Ireland , such as mass evictions , killings and deportation of over 50,000 men , women and children as prisoners of war and indentured servants to Bermuda and Barbados , were carried out under the command of other generals after Oliver Cromwell had left for England .
By an uncompleted process of terror , by an iniquitous land settlement , by the virtual proscription of the Catholic religion , by the bloody deeds already described , Oliver Cromwell cut new gulfs between the nations and the creeds .
` Hell or Connaught ' were the terms Oliver Cromwell thrust upon the native inhabitants , and they for their part , across three hundred years , have used as their keenest expression of hatred ` The Curse of Cromwell on you ' .
Former Taoiseach Bertie Ahern insisted that the portrait of Cromwell ( ` that murdering bastard ' ) be taken down from a room in Westminster before Oliver Cromwell began talks with British prime minister Tony Blair and as recently as 1965 the Irish minister for lands explained that Oliver Cromwell preferred policies were necessary to , `` undo the work of Cromwell '' .
In the final stages of the Scottish campaign , Oliver Cromwell men , under George Monck , sacked Dundee , killing up to 1,000 men and 140 women and children .
In Oliver Cromwell speech at the opening of the assembly on 4 July 1653 , Cromwell thanked God 's providence that Oliver Cromwell believed had brought England to this point and set out their divine mission : `` truly God hath called you to this work by , Oliver Cromwell think , as wonderful providences as ever passed upon the sons of men in so short a time '' .
The first was `` healing and settling '' the nation after the chaos of the civil wars and the regicide , which meant establishing a stable form for the new government to take .
Oliver Cromwell declared , `` A nobleman , a gentleman , a yeoman ; the distinction of these : that is a good interest of the nation , and a great one !
During the early months of the Protectorate , a set of `` triers '' was established to assess the suitability of future parish ministers , and a related set of `` ejectors '' was set up to dismiss ministers and schoolmasters who were deemed unsuitable for office .
The 15 major generals and deputy major generals -- called `` godly governors '' -- were central not only to national security , but Oliver Cromwell crusade to reform the nation 's morals .
While a few of these commissioners were career politicians , most were zealous puritans who welcomed the major-generals with open arms and embraced their work with enthusiasm .
Oliver Cromwell new rights and powers were laid out in the Humble Petition and Advice , a legislative instrument which replaced the Instrument of Government .
Cromwell , however , was at pains to minimise Oliver Cromwell role , describing Oliver Cromwell as a constable or watchman .
On 30 January 1661 , ( symbolically the 12th anniversary of the execution of Charles I ) , Oliver Cromwell body was exhumed from Westminster Abbey , and was subjected to the ritual of a posthumous execution , as were the remains of Robert Blake , John Bradshaw and Henry Ireton .
However , many people began to question whether or not the body mutilated at Tyburn was in fact that of Oliver Cromwell .
During Oliver Cromwell lifetime , some tracts painted Oliver Cromwell as a hypocrite motivated by power -- for example , The Machiavilian Cromwell and The Juglers Discovered , both part of an attack on Cromwell by the Levellers after 1647 , present Oliver Cromwell as a Machiavellian figure .
A version of Edmund Ludlow 's Memoirs , re-written by John Toland to excise the radical Puritanical elements and replace them with a Whiggish brand of republicanism , presented the Cromwellian Protectorate as a military tyranny .
Cromwell 's actions , including Oliver Cromwell campaigns in Ireland and Oliver Cromwell dissolution of the Long Parliament , according to Carlyle , had to be appreciated and praised as a whole .
By the late 19th century , Carlyle 's portrayal of Oliver Cromwell , stressing the centrality of puritan morality and earnestness , had become assimilated into Whig and Liberal historiography .
In this work , which was published between 1937 and 1947 , Abbott began to argue that Oliver Cromwell was a proto-fascist .
Woolrych argued that the dictatorial elements of Cromwell 's rule stemmed not so much from its military origins or the participation of army officers in civil government , as from Oliver Cromwell constant commitment to the interest of the people of God and Oliver Cromwell conviction that suppressing vice and encouraging virtue constituted the chief end of government .
The Oliver Cromwell Tank , a British Second World War medium weight tank first used in 1944 , and a steam locomotive built by British Railways in 1951 , 70013 Oliver Cromwell were both named after Oliver Cromwell .
As Henry Kissinger has noted , `` The man of ` blood and iron ' wrote prose of extraordinary directness and lucidity , comparable in distinctiveness to Churchill 's use of the English language '' .
Bismarck , an aristocratic Junker Otto von Bismarck , had an extremely aggressive and domineering personality .
Otto von Bismarck father , Karl Wilhelm Ferdinand von Bismarck ( Schönhausen , 13 November 1771 -- 22 November 1845 ) , was a Junker estate owner and a former Prussian military officer ; Otto von Bismarck mother , Wilhelmine Luise Mencken ( Potsdam , 24 February 1789 -- Berlin ) , the well-educated daughter of a senior government official in Berlin .
There , Otto von Bismarck gained a reputation as a royalist and reactionary politician with a gift for stinging rhetoric ; Otto von Bismarck openly advocated the idea that the monarch had a divine right to rule .
This episode was the background for an altercation in the Frankfurt chamber with Georg von Vincke that led to a duel between Bismarck and Vincke and Carl von Bodelschwingh as impartial party , which ended without injury .
As a further snub , the Regent , who scorned Bismarck as a `` Landwehrleutnant '' ( reserve lieutenant ) , had declined to promote Otto von Bismarck to the rank of major-general , normal for the ambassador to Saint Petersburg ( and important as Prussia and Russia were close military allies , whose heads of state often communicated through military contacts rather than diplomatic channels ) .
The King and Otto von Bismarck generals wanted to push on , conquer Bohemia and march to Vienna , but Bismarck , worried that Prussian military luck might change or that France might intervene on Austria 's side , enlisted the help of the Crown Prince ( who had opposed the war but had commanded one of the Prussian armies at Königgrätz ) to change Otto von Bismarck father 's mind after stormy meetings .
To provoke France into declaring war with Prussia , Bismarck published the Ems Dispatch , a carefully edited version of a conversation between King Wilhelm and the French ambassador to Prussia , Count Benedetti .
The new German Empire was a federation : each of its 25 constituent states ( kingdoms , grand duchies , duchies , principalities , and free cities ) retained some autonomy .
The King of Prussia , as German Emperor , was not sovereign over the entirety of Germany ; Otto von Bismarck was only primus inter pares , or first among equals .
At the end , France had to surrender Alsace and part of Lorraine , because Moltke and Otto von Bismarck generals insisted that it was needed as a defensive barrier .
Otto von Bismarck policies concerning the Poles of Prussia were generally unfavourable to them , furthering enmity between the German and Polish peoples .
Bismarck had unified Otto von Bismarck nation and now Otto von Bismarck devoted Otto von Bismarck to promoting peace in Europe with Otto von Bismarck skills in statesmanship .
In 1872 , Bismarck offered friendship to the Austro-Hungarian Empire and Russia , whose rulers joined Wilhelm Otto von Bismarck in the League of the Three Emperors , also known as the Dreikaiserbund .
As a penalty for this indiscretion , Bismarck intended to remove Arnim from Paris and reassign Otto von Bismarck as ambassador to the Ottoman Empire at İstanbul , which Arnim saw as a demotion given the relative importance of France to Germany as opposed to the Ottoman Empire .
Russia 's Tsar Alexander II and Otto von Bismarck chancellor Prince Gorchakov , at the time on a state visit to Germany , seized the opportunity to inject themselves as European peace makers .
This action initiated a lasting estrangement between Bismarck and Gorchakov over the latter 's `` interference '' in a Franco-German spat .
Between 1873 and 1877 , Germany repeatedly intervened in the internal affairs of France 's neighbors .
Otto von Bismarck also negotiated the Triple Alliance in 1882 with Austria-Hungary and Italy ; this was a completely different Alliance to the Dual Alliance .
Attempts to reconcile Germany and Russia did not have lasting effect : the Three Emperors ' League was re-established in 1881 , but quickly fell apart ( the end of the Russian-Austrian-Prussian solidarity which had existed in various forms since 1813 ) .
Historians have debated exactly why Otto von Bismarck made this sudden and short-lived move .
Other European nations , led by Britain and France , were acquiring colonies in a rapid fashion ( see New Imperialism ) .
`` Bulgaria , that little country between the Danube and the Balkans , is far from being an object of adequate importance ... for which to plunge Europe from Moscow to the Pyrenees , and from the North Sea to Palermo , into a war whose issue no man can foresee .
Bismarck had first made this famous comment to the Reichstag in December 1876 , when the Balkan revolts against the Ottoman Empire threatened to extend to a war between Austria and Russia .
Based on Bismarck 's message , the Reichstag filed three bills designed to deal with the concept of Accident insurance , and one for Health Insurance .
The health service was established on a local basis , with the cost divided between employers and the employed .
The Old Age Pension program , an insurance equally financed by employers and workers , was designed to provide a pension annuity for workers who reached the age of 70 years .
Before the latter became terminally ill , Bismarck did not expect Otto von Bismarck would live to see Wilhelm ascend to the throne , and thus had no strategy to deal with Otto von Bismarck .
The Kartell majority in the Reichstag , of the amalgamated Conservative Party and the National Liberal Party , was willing to make most of the laws permanent .
Bismarck , feeling pressured and unappreciated by the Emperor and undermined by ambitious advisers , refused to sign a proclamation regarding the protection of workers along with Wilhelm , as was required by the German Constitution , to protest Wilhelm 's ever increasing interference to Bismarck 's previously unquestioned authority .
Bismarck resigned at Wilhelm II 's insistence on 18 March 1890 , at age 75 , to be succeeded as Chancellor of Germany and Minister-President of Prussia by Leo von Caprivi .
Germany had existed as a collection of hundreds of separate principalities and Free Cities since the formation of the Holy Roman Empire .
France , the main exception , was devastated by Bismarck 's wars and Otto von Bismarck harsh subsequent policies towards it ; France became one of Germany 's most bitter enemies in Europe .
Bismarck believed that as long as Britain , Russia and Italy were assured of the peaceful nature of the German Empire , French belligerency could be contained ; Otto von Bismarck diplomatic feats were undone , however , by Kaiser Wilhelm II , whose policies unified other European powers against Germany in time for World War I .
Two ships of the German Imperial Navy ( Kaiserliche Marine ) , and the from the World War II -- era , were named after Otto von Bismarck .
Gerwarth ( 2007 ) shows that the Bismarck myth , built up predominantly during Otto von Bismarck years of retirement and even more stridently after Otto von Bismarck death , proved a powerful rhetorical and ideological tool .
Gerwarth argues that the constructed memory of Bismarck played a central role as an anti-democratic myth in the highly ideological battle over the past which raged between 1918 and 1933 .
This was on the understanding that Bismarck would immediately restore the duchy to Prussia ; all that Otto von Bismarck wanted was the privilege of a mediatized family for Otto von Bismarck and Otto von Bismarck descendants .
Lobbying , or the influencing of decisions made by government , is another activist tactic .
Olney Olney Hymns , situated near the borders of Buckinghamshire , Bedfordshire , and Northamptonshire , places Olney Hymns within a region traditionally associated with religious Dissent .
Dissenters were Protestants who refused to follow the rules of the Church of England after the Restoration of Charles II in 1660 , and when Newton settled in Olney the village still supported two Dissenting chapels .
` Amazing Grace ' was not the original title of this hymn : Olney Hymns was originally written as a poem entitled ` Faith 's Review and Expectation ' and appears in Book I of the Olney Hymns with the poem 's title and ` hymn 41 ' .
Recapitulation theory , also called the biogenetic law or embryological parallelism -- often expressed in Ernst Haeckel 's phrase as `` ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny '' -- is a largely discredited biological hypothesis that in developing from embryo to adult , animals go through stages resembling or representing successive stages in the evolution of their remote ancestors .
The first formal formulation was proposed by Étienne Serres in 1824 -- 26 as what became known as the `` Meckel-Serres Law '' , Recapitulation theory attempted to provide a link between comparative embryology and a `` pattern of unification '' in the organic world .
Ontogeny is the growth ( size change ) and development ( shape change ) of an individual organism ; phylogeny is the evolutionary history of a species .
Embryonic pharyngeal slits , which form in many animals when the thin branchial plates separating pharyngeal pouches and pharyngeal grooves perforate , open the pharynx to the outside .
Although Haeckel 's specific form of recapitulation theory is now discredited among biologists , the strong influence Recapitulation theory had on social and educational theories of the late 19th century still resonates in the 21st century .
Invading southward from the Baltic Sea , Ostrogoths , at the time known as the Greuthungi , built up a huge empire stretching from the Dniester to the Volga River and from the Black Sea to the Baltic shores .
This is supported by evidence that geographic descriptors were commonly used to distinguish people living north of the Black Sea both before and after Gothic settlement there and by the lack of evidence for an earlier date for the name pair Tervingi-Greuthungi than the late third century .
Mentioned in several sources up to the third century A.D. when Ostrogoths apparently split into at least two groups , the Greuthungi in the east and Tervingi in the west , the two Gothic tribes shared many aspects , especially recognizing a patron deity the Romans named Mars .
This was a multi-tribal state ruled by a Gothic elite but inhabited by many other interrelated but multi-tongue tribes including the Iranic-speaking Sarmatians , the Germanic-speaking Gepids , the Thracian-speaking Dacians , other minor Celtic and Thracian tribes and possibly early Slavs .
Ostrogoths were seen going to and from , in every conceivable relation of friendship and enmity with the Eastern Roman power , until , just as the West Goths had done before them , Ostrogoths passed from the East to the West .
Theoderic sought to revive Roman culture and government and in doing so , profited the Italian people .
The few instances where Ostrogoths act together after this time are as scattered and incidental as Ostrogoths were before .
Belisarius took the offensive , tricked Totila into yielding Rome along the way , but then lost it again after a jealous Justinian , fearful of Belisarius ' power , starved him of supplies and reinforcements .
As a result the Goths hold a different place in Iberian memory than in Italian memory : In Italy , Ostrogoths were a momentary invader and ruler , while in Iberia the Visigoths supplied an important element in the founding of that nation , a fact that has been neither forgotten nor despised .
There is a bijection between the field orderings of F and the positive cones of F. Given a field ordering ≤ as in Def 1 , the elements such that x ≥ 0 forms a positive cone of F. Conversely , given a positive cone P of F as in Def 2 , one can associate a total ordering ≤ P by setting x ≤ P y to mean y & minus ; x ∈ P .
Also , the p-adic numbers can not be ordered , since Q2 contains a square root of & minus ; 7 and Qp ( p > 2 ) contains a square root of 1 & minus ; p .
If F is equipped with the order topology arising from the total order ≤ , then the axioms guarantee that the operations + and × are continuous , so that F is a topological field .
Oracle machine are useful for investigating the relationship between complexity classes P and NP , by considering the relationship between PA and NPA for an oracle A .
This fact creates a hierarchy of machines , called the arithmetical hierarchy , each with a more powerful halting oracle and an even harder halting problem .
Orangutan are the most solitary of the great apes , with social bonds occurring primarily between mothers and their dependent offspring , who stay together for the first two years .
The name `` orangutan '' ( also written orang-utan , orang utan , orangutang , and ourang-outang ) is derived from the Malay and Indonesian words orang meaning `` person '' and hutan meaning `` forest '' , thus `` person of the forest '' .
The word was first attested in English in 1691 in the form orang-outang , and variants with - ng instead of - n as in the Malay original are found in many languages .
The name of the genus , Pongo , comes from a 16th-century account by Andrew Battell , an English sailor held prisoner by the Portuguese in Angola , which describes two anthropoid `` monsters '' named Pongo and Engeco .
Since their hip joints have the same flexibility as their shoulder and arm joints , Orangutan have less restriction in the movements of their legs than humans have .
Geophagy , the practice of eating soil or rock , has been observed in Orangutan .
Orangutan also tend to be consortships between an adult male and female .
These orangutans developed a tool kit for use in foraging that consisted of both insect-extraction tools for use in the hollows of trees and seed-extraction tools for harvesting seeds from hard-husked fruit .
The orangutans of Suaq Balimbing ( P. abelii ) were found to be avid users of insect and seed-extraction tools when compared to other wild orangutans .
The orangutans at Suaq Balimbing live in dense groups and are socially tolerant ; this creates good conditions for social transmission .
In the only signing study ever conducted in a great ape 's natural environment , Shapiro home-reared Princess , a juvenile female , which learned nearly 40 signs ( according to the criteria of sign acquisition used by psychologist Francine Patterson with Koko , the gorilla ) and trained Rinnie , a free-ranging adult female orangutan , which learned nearly 30 signs over a two-year period .
Some folk tales involve orangutans mating with and kidnapping humans .
Major conservation centres that are headquartered outside of Orangutan home countries ; include Orangutan Foundation International , which was founded by Birutė Galdikas , and the Australian Orangutan Project .
Orangutan is the most solitary of the great apes , with social bonds occurring primarily between mothers and their dependent offspring , who stay together for the first two years .
When open , Cobble Hill Tunnel ran for about 2517 ft between Columbia Street and Boerum Place .
The Old English poem Widsith ( 9th century ) refers briefly to Offa of Angel victorious single combat , a story which is related at length by the 12th-century Danish historians Saxo and Svend Aggesen .
It is probable that the Offa whose marriage with Modþryð , a lady of murderous disposition , is mentioned in Beowulf ( lines 1949 and 1957 ) , is the same person .
Offa of Angel promptly challenged the prince of the Saxons and one of Offa of Angel champions to a duel in order to regain the honour of the Angles .
The physics principle behind orbital resonance is similar in concept to pushing a child on a swing , where the orbit and the swing both have a natural frequency , and the other body doing the `` pushing '' will act in periodic repetition to have a cumulative effect on the motion .
Under some circumstances , a resonant system can be stable and self-correcting , so that the bodies remain in resonance .
A secular resonance occurs when the precession of two orbits is synchronised ( usually a precession of the perihelion or ascending node ) .
A resonance between the precession of Saturn 's rotational axis and that of Neptune 's orbital axis ( both of which have periods of about 1.87 million years ) has been identified as the likely source of Saturn 's large axial tilt ( 26.7 ° ) .
The gradual depletion of the Kuiper belt would have decreased the precession rate of Neptune 's orbit ; eventually , the frequencies matched , and Saturn 's axial precession was captured into Orbital resonance , leading to an increase in Saturn 's obliquity .
The perihelion secular resonance between asteroids and Saturn ( ν6 = g - g6 ) helps shape the asteroid belt .
This resonance forms the inner and `` side '' boundaries of the asteroid belt around 2 AU , and at inclinations of about 20 ° .
Numerical simulations have suggested that the eventual formation of a perihelion secular resonance between Mercury and Jupiter ( g1 = g5 ) has the potential to greatly increase Mercury 's eccentricity and possibly destabilize the inner Solar System several billion years from now .
In an example of another type of resonance involving orbital eccentricity , the eccentricities of Ganymede and Callisto vary with a common period of 181 years , although with opposite phases .
The minimum separation between the two bodies overall is 17 AU , while the minimum separation between Pluto and Uranus is just 11 AU ( see Pluto 's orbit for detailed explanation and graphs ) .
A number of near-integer-ratio relationships between the orbital frequencies of the planets or major moons are sometimes pointed out ( see list below ) .
Still , this is enough that Venus and Earth find themselves in the opposite relative orientation to the original every 120 such cycles , which is 960 years .
A past resonance between Jupiter and Saturn may have played a dramatic role in early Solar System history .
A 2004 computer model by Alessandro Morbidelli of the Observatoire de la Côte d'Azur in Nice suggested that the formation of a 1:2 resonance between Jupiter and Saturn ( due to interactions with planetesimals that caused them to migrate inward and outward , respectively ) created a gravitational push that propelled both Uranus and Neptune into higher orbits , and in some scenarios caused them to switch places , which would have doubled Neptune 's distance from the Sun .
In the Uranus System , however , due to the planet 's lesser degree of oblateness , and the larger relative size of Orbital resonance satellites , escape from a mean-motion resonance is much easier .
Statistics Canada , defines the Annapolis Valley as an economic region , composed of Annapolis County , Kings County , and Hants County .
Some major races , such as the Singapore Grand Prix , Monaco Grand Prix ( sanctioned by Formula One ) and the Long Beach Grand Prix ( sanctioned by Indycar ) , are held on temporary street circuits .
In the USA , offshore powerboat racing is split between OPA Racing APBA/UIM races and the OSS races .
One of the benefits of sponsoring an offshore powerboat team , as stated by team owner and driver Bjørn Rune Gjelsten , is that in Formula One motor racing , 1 million will only allow a small space , whereas in offshore powerboating , this covers the whole of the boat .
This propels the boat to speeds up to in flat water , and Offshore powerboat racing lower centre of gravity provides greater stability and improved handling .
The series is split between Evolution class and Supersport class .
Avenger Too , crewed by Timo Mäkinen , Pascoe Watson and Brian Hendicott , the Round Britain race was a success story from start to finish .
In more recent times these are a few of the very well known names and names known in the Powerboat Racing circle .
The best of Ogden Nash work was published in 14 volumes between 1931 and 1972 .
Featured on the magazine cover is defensive player Dennis Gaubatz , number 53 , in midair pursuit with this description : `` That is Ogden Nash , looming 10 feet tall or taller above the Steelers ' signal caller ... Since Gaubatz acts like this on Sunday , Ogden Nash 'll do Ogden Nash quarterbacking Monday '' .
Memorable Colts Jimmy Orr , Billy Ray Smith , Bubba Smith , Willie Richardson , Dick Szymanski and Lou Michaels contribute to the poetry .
Ogden Nash daughter Isabel was married to noted photographer Fred Eberstadt , and Ogden Nash granddaughter , Fernanda Eberstadt , is an acclaimed author .
For example in Genealogical Reflections Ogden Nash writes : '' No McTavish Was ever Lavish '' How courteous is the Japanese Ogden Nash always says , Excuse it , please Ogden Nash climbs into Ogden Nash neighbor 's garden And smiles , and says , Ogden Nash beg your pardon Ogden Nash bows and grins a friendly grin And calls Ogden Nash hungry family in Ogden Nash grins , and bows a friendly bow So sorry , this Ogden Nash garden now The US Postal Service released a postage stamp featuring Ogden Nash and six of Ogden Nash poems on the centennial of Ogden Nash birth on 19 August 2002 .
The ceremony was held at the home that Ogden Nash and Ogden Nash wife Frances shared with Ogden Nash parents on 4300 Rugby Road , where Ogden Nash did most of Ogden Nash writing .
The interior of the compound of two dual tetrahedra is an octahedron , and this compound , called the stella octangula , is Octahedron first and only stellation .
Octahedron all have six vertices , eight triangular faces , and twelve edges that correspond one-for-one with the features of a regular octahedron .
If this diagonal is oriented vertically with a height of 1 , then the first five slices above occur at heights r , 3/8 , 1/2 , 5/8 , and s , where r is any number in the range ( 0,1 / 4 , and s is any number in the range 3/4 ,1 ) .
The regular octahedron shares Octahedron edges and vertex arrangement with one nonconvex uniform polyhedron : the tetrahemihexahedron , with which Octahedron shares four of the triangular faces .
Rømer was given every opportunity to learn mathematics and astronomy using Tycho Brahe 's astronomical observations , as Bartholin had been given the task of preparing them for publication .
Fahrenheit visited Ole Rømer in 1708 and improved on the Rømer scale , the result being the familiar Fahrenheit temperature scale still in use today in a few countries .
In choosing analgesics , the severity and response to other medication determines the choice of agent ; the World Health Organization ( WHO ) pain ladder specifies mild analgesics as Analgesic first step .
Analgesic is used in Europe for moderate to strong pain and migraine and Analgesic muscle relaxant properties .
While the use of paracetamol , aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen and other NSAIDS concurrently with weak to mid-range opiates ( up to about the hydrocodone level ) has been said to show beneficial synergistic effects by combatting pain at multiple sites of action , several combination Analgesic products have been shown to have few efficacy benefits when compared to similar doses of their individual components .
Tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) and some other cannabinoids , either from the Cannabis sativa plant or synthetic , have Analgesic properties , although the use of cannabis derivatives is currently illegal in many countries .
Adjuvant Analgesic , also called atypical Analgesic , include nefopam , orphenadrine , pregabalin , gabapentin , cyclobenzaprine , scopolamine , and other drugs possessing anticonvulsant , anticholinergic and/or antispasmodic properties , as well as many other drugs with CNS actions .
High-alcohol liquor , two forms of which were in the US Pharmacopoeia up until 1916 and in common use by physicians well into the 1930s , has been used in the past as an agent for dulling pain , due to the CNS depressant effects of ethyl alcohol , a notable example being the American Civil War .
Stimulants such as methylphenidate , caffeine , ephedrine , dextroamphetamine , methamphetamine and cocaine work against heavy sedation and may elevate mood in distressed patients as do the antidepressants .
Othello is a tragedy by William Shakespeare , believed to have been written in approximately 1603 , and based on the Italian short story Un Capitano Moro ( `` A Moorish Captain '' ) by Cinthio , a disciple of Boccaccio , first published in 1565 .
Iago schemes to use Cassio to ruin Othello and takes the opportunity of Othello absence at the celebration to persuade Roderigo to engage Cassio in a fight .
Desdemona drops a handkerchief that was Othello first gift to Desdemona and which he has stated holds great significance to him in the context of their relationship .
Othello also resembles an incident described in the earlier tale of `` The Three Apples '' , one of the stories narrated in the One Thousand and One Nights ( Arabian Nights ) .
Unlike in Othello , in Cinthio , Iago lusts after Desdemona and is spurred to revenge when she rejects him .
Shakespeare 's opening scenes are unique to Othello as is the tender scene between Emilia and Desdemona as the lady prepares for bed .
For knowledge of this Shakespeare would have used Gasparo Contarini 's The Commonwealth and Government of Venice , in Lewes Lewkenor 's 1599 translation .
Othello was entered into the Register of the Stationers Company on 6 October 1621 , by Thomas Walkley , and was first published in quarto format by him in 1622 : `` Tragœdy of Othello , The Moore of Venice .
However , the version in the Folio is rather different in length , and in wording : as the editors of the Folger edition explain : `` The Folio play has about 160 lines that do not appear in the Quarto .
Michael Neill , editor of the Oxford Shakespeare edition , notes that the earliest critical references to Othello colour , ( Thomas Rymer 's 1693 critique of the play , and the 1709 engraving in Nicholas Rowe 's edition of Shakespeare ) , assume him to be Sub-Saharan , while the earliest known North African interpretation was not until Edmund Kean 's production of 1814 .
In the past , Othello would often have been portrayed by a white actor in blackface or in a black mask ; more recent actors who chose to ` blacken up ' include Ralph Richardson ( 1937 ) , John Gielgud ( 1961 ) , Laurence Olivier ( 1964 ) , Anthony Hopkins ( 1981 ) and Orson Welles .
Ground-breaking black American actor Paul Robeson played the role in three different productions between 1930 and 1959 .
Patrick Stewart played the role in the Royal Shakespeare Company 's 1997 staging of Othello and Thomas Thieme , also white , played Othello in a 2007 Munich Kammerspiele staging at the Royal Shakespeare Theatre , Stratford .
He achieves this by getting close to all characters and playing on their weaknesses while Othello refer to him as `` honest '' Iago , thus furthering his control over the characters .
A. C. Bradley , and more recently Harold Bloom , have been major advocates of this interpretation .
As the Protestant Reformation of England highlighted the importance of pious , controlled behaviour in society , it was the tendency of the contemporary Englishman to displace society 's undesirable qualities of barbarism , treachery , jealousy and libidinousness onto those who are considered ` other ' .
As Shakespeare regained popularity among nineteenth-century French Romantics , poet , playwright , and novelist Alfred de Vigny created a French translation of Othello , titled Le More de Venise , which premiered at the Comédie-Française on 24 October 1829 .
Although Othello was never filmed , Othello was the first lengthy performance of a Shakespeare play released on records , appearing first on a multi-record 78 RPM set and then on a 3-LP one .
The film version still holds the record for the most Oscar nominations for acting ever given to a Shakespeare film -- Olivier , Finlay , Maggie Smith ( as Desdemona ) and Joyce Redman ( as Emilia , Iago 's wife ) were all nominated for Academy Awards .
( 1981 ) , and Michael Gambon in a stage production at Scarborough directed by Alan Ayckbourn in 1990 .
Canadian playwright Ann-Marie MacDonald 's 1988 award-winning play Goodnight Desdemona ( Good Morning Juliet ) is a revision of Othello Othello and Juliet in which an academic deciphers a cryptic manuscript she believes to be the original source for the tragedies , and is transported into the plays themselves .
Ejiofor and Hiddleston both received nominations for Laurence Olivier Awards , with Ejiofor winning but Hiddleston being beaten by himself , also nominated in the same category for a different play .
Giuseppe Verdi and librettist Arrigo Boito adapted Shakespeare 's play to Otello , an Italian grand opera in four acts that was first performed at the Teatro alla Scala , Milan on 5 February 1887 .
On 25 February 1999 , Bandanna , an English language opera in a prologue and two acts with a libretto by Irish poet Paul Muldoon and music by Daron Hagen was performed by the opera theatre at The University of Texas in Austin .
The ballet was broadcast on PBS 's Great Performances : Dance in America and the program was nominated for an Emmy Award .
Shot between 1948 and 1952 , Orson Welles directed ( 1952 ) , produced as Othello .
Lack of funds ( and costumes ) forced Roderigo 's death scene to be shot in a Turkish bath with performers wearing only large , ragged towels .
Unlike Welles 's film , Laurence Olivier 's Othello ( 1965 ) , based on John Dexter 's National Theatre Company 's production , brings issues of race to the fore , with Olivier putting on an ` African accent ' and entering in a large ` ethnic ' necklace and a dressing gown .
Osteoporosis ( `` porous bones '' , from Greek : οστούν / ostoun meaning `` bone '' and πόρος / poros meaning `` pore '' ) is a disease of bones that leads to an increased risk of fracture .
Osteoporosis is defined by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) as a bone mineral density of 2.5 standard deviations or more below the mean peak bone mass ( average of young , healthy adults ) as measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry ; the term `` established osteoporosis '' includes the presence of a fragility fracture .
The risk of falling , in turn , is increased by impaired eyesight due to any cause , vasovagal syncope , orthostatic hypotension ( abnormal drop in blood pressure on standing up ) , and seizures .
Those with previous falls , as well as those with gait or balance disorders , are most at risk .
Those who have already had a fracture are at least twice as likely to have another fracture compared to someone of the same age and sex .
The underlying mechanism in all cases of osteoporosis is an imbalance between bone resorption and bone formation .
Osteoprotegerin ( OPG ) binds RANKL before Osteoporosis has an opportunity to bind to RANK , and hence suppresses Osteoporosis ability to increase bone resorption .
Trabecular bone ( or cancellous bone ) is the sponge-like bone in the ends of long bones and vertebrae .
Common osteoporotic fracture sites , the wrist , the hip and the spine , have a relatively high trabecular bone to cortical bone ratio .
The main radiographic features of generalized osteoporosis are cortical thinning and increased radiolucency .
Calcitonin while once recommended is no longer due to the associated risk of cancer with Osteoporosis use and questionable effect on fracture risk .
The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights ( OHCHR ) is a United Nations agency that works to promote and protect the human rights that are guaranteed under international law and stipulated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 .
The mandate of Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights derives from Articles 1 , 13 and 55 of the Charter of the United Nations , the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and General Assembly resolution 48/141 of 20 December 1993 , by which the Assembly established the post of Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights .
79 ) , the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Centre for Human Rights were consolidated into a single Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on 15 September 1997 .
The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights , in the performance of his or her activities , is assisted by a Deputy to the High Commissioner who acts as Officer-in-Charge during the absence of the High Commissioner .
The Treaties and Commission Branch ( formerly Support Services Branch ) is headed by a Chief who is accountable to the High Commissioner .
The Capacity Building Branch ( formerly Activities and Programmes Branch ) is headed by a Chief who is accountable to the High Commissioner .
had also run a high profile campaign calling for greater transparency in the appointment , including a blog site and a spoof job advertisement in the Economist .
The Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) activated eleven of Oklahoma City bombing Urban Search and Rescue Task Forces , consisting of 665 rescue workers who assisted in rescue and recovery operations .
Motivated by his hatred of the federal government and angered by what he perceived as its mishandling of the 1993 Waco siege and the Ruby Ridge incident in 1992 , McVeigh timed his attack to coincide with the second anniversary of the deadly fire that ended the siege at Waco .
In March 1993 , McVeigh visited the Waco site during the standoff , and then again after Oklahoma City bombing conclusion .
In all , the truck rental cost about $ 250 , the fertilizer less than $ 500 , and the nitromethane $ 2,780 , with a cheap car being used as a getaway vehicle .
Despite these doubts , items that were stolen from Moore were later found in Nichols ' home and in a storage shed that he had rented .
On April 17 -- 18 , 1995 , McVeigh and Nichols removed their supplies from their storage unit in Herington , Kansas , where Nichols lived .
and a hand-copied quote by John Locke asserting that a man has a right to kill someone who takes away his liberty .
Seismometers at Science Museum Oklahoma in Oklahoma City , 4.3 mi away , and in Norman , Oklahoma , 16.1 mi away , recorded the blast as measuring approximately 3.0 on the Richter scale .
After booking McVeigh , Hanger searched his police car and found a business card McVeigh had hidden while he was handcuffed .
While investigating the VIN from an axle of the truck used in the explosion and the remnants of the license plate , federal agents were able to link the truck to a specific Ryder rental agency in Junction City .
Those killed included 163 who were in the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building , one person in the Athenian Building , one woman in a parking lot across the street , a man and woman in the Oklahoma Water Resources building , and a rescue worker struck on the head by debris .
Immediate assistance also came from 465 members of the Oklahoma National Guard , who arrived within the hour to provide security , and from members of the Department of Civil Emergency Management .
The triage center was set up near the Murrah Building and all the wounded were directed there .
The Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) activated eleven of Oklahoma City bombing Urban Search and Rescue Task Forces , which consisted of a team of 665 rescue workers .
At 4:00 pm , President Clinton declared a federal emergency in Oklahoma City and spoke to the nation : He ordered that flags for all federal buildings be flown at half-staff for 30 days in remembrance of the victims .
By 2005 , $ 18 million of the donations remained , some of which was earmarked to provide a college education for each of the 219 children who lost one or both parents in Oklahoma City bombing .
The FBI stated that McVeigh scouted the interior of the building in December 1994 and likely knew of the day-care center before Oklahoma City bombing .
In April 2010 , Joseph Hartzler , the prosecutor at McVeigh 's trial , questioned how he could have decided to pass over a prior target building because of an included florist shop but at the Murrah building not '' ... notice that there 's a child day-care center there , that there was a credit union there and a Social Security office ?
This study showed that these students , although deeply moved by the event and showing a sense of vulnerability on the matter , had no difficulty with the demands of school or home life , contrasting those who were connected to the bombing and Oklahoma City bombing victims , who suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder .
On April 22 , 1995 , the Clintons spoke in the White House with over 40 federal agency employees and their children , and in a live nationwide television and radio broadcast , addressed their concerns .
In the case of Oklahoma City bombing , Hamzi Moghrabi , chairman of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee , blamed the media for the attacks on Muslims and Arabs that took place just days after Oklahoma City bombing .
Within 48 hours of the attack , and with the assistance of the General Services Administration ( GSA ) , the targeted federal offices were able to resume operations in other parts of Oklahoma City bombing .
On April 6 , 2010 , `` House Bill 2750 '' was signed by Governor Brad Henry , requiring the bombing to be entered into the school curriculum for Oklahoma , U.S. and world history classes .
On the signing , Governor Henry said `` Although the events of April 19 , 1995 may be etched in our minds and in the minds of Oklahomans who remember that day , we have a generation of Oklahomans that has little to no memory of the events of that day , '' ... `` We owe Oklahoma City bombing to the victims , the survivors and all of the people touched by this tragic event to remember April 19 , 1995 and understand what Oklahoma City bombing meant and still means to this state and this nation '' .
Those who were able to flee the Murrah building did so , while others , stuck in the rubble , awaited the assistance of rescue workers and volunteers .
Because of the crowded streets , and the number of response agencies sent to the location , communication between government branches and rescue workers was muddled .
By helping civilians out , and rescue workers in , the number of casualties will hopefully be decreased .
President George W. Bush made note of Oklahoma City bombing in a written statement , part of which echoed his remarks on the execution of Timothy McVeigh in 2001 : `` For the survivors of the crime and for the families of the dead the pain goes on '' .
The FBI and Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) , as well as other U.S. governmental agencies , have used either `` Osama bin Laden '' or `` Osama bin Laden '' .
Less common renderings include `` Ussamah bin Ladin '' and , in the French-language media , `` Oussama ben Laden '' .
The spellings with o and e come from a Persian-influenced pronunciation also used in Afghanistan , where Osama bin Laden spent many years .
The Arabic linguistic convention would be to refer to Osama bin Laden as `` Osama '' or `` Osama bin Laden '' , not `` bin Laden '' alone , as `` bin Laden '' is a patronymic , not a surname in the Western manner .
Notes of a meeting of bin Laden and others on August 20 , 1988 indicate that al-Qaeda was a formal group by that time : `` Basically an organized Islamic faction , its goal is to lift the word of God , to make Osama bin Laden religion victorious '' .
The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait under Saddam Hussein on August 2 , 1990 , put the Saudi kingdom and the House of Saud at risk .
In late 1995 , when Osama bin Laden was still in Sudan , the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) learned that Sudanese officials were discussing with the Saudi government the possibility of expelling Osama bin Laden .
Due to the increasing pressure on Sudan from Saudi Arabia , Egypt , and the United States , bin Laden was permitted to leave for a country of Osama bin Laden choice .
Osama bin Laden view was that `` the ` evils ' of the Middle East arose from America 's attempt to take over the region and from its support for Israel .
Bin Laden helped cement Osama bin Laden alliance with the Taliban by sending several hundred Afghan Arab fighters along to help the Taliban kill between five and six thousand Hazaras overrunning the city .
In 1999 the CIA , together with Pakistani military intelligence , had prepared a team of approximately 60 Pakistani commandos to infiltrate Afghanistan to capture or kill Osama bin Laden , but the plan was aborted by the 1999 Pakistani coup d'état ; in 2000 , foreign operatives working on behalf of the CIA had fired a rocket-propelled grenade at a convoy of vehicles in which Osama bin Laden was traveling through the mountains of Afghanistan , hitting one of the vehicles but not the one in which Osama bin Laden was in .
`` Osama bin Laden do n't think that we can finally defeat al-Qaeda until Osama bin Laden 's captured or killed '' , McChrystal said of bin Laden .
Osama bin Laden wrote that the tatarrus doctrine `` needs to be revisited based on the modern-day context and clear boundaries established '' .
Pakistan 's United States envoy , ambassador Husain Haqqani , promises a `` full inquiry '' into how Pakistani intelligence services failed to find bin Laden in a fortified compound , just a few hours drive from Islamabad , and stated that `` obviously Osama bin Laden did have a support system ; the issue is , was that support system within the government and the state of Pakistan or within the society of Pakistan ?
Ontogeny ( also ontogenesis or morphogenesis ) is the origin and the development of an organism : for example , from the fertilized egg to mature form .
Ophiuchus name is from the Greek `` serpent-bearer '' , and Ophiuchus is commonly represented as a man grasping the snake that is represented by the constellation Serpens .
Ophiuchus is located between Aquila , Serpens and Hercules , northwest of the center of the Milky Way .
The southern part lies between Scorpius to the west and Sagittarius to the east .
Rasalhague , a fairly conspicuous star in Ophiuchus north , is circumpolar north of 78 ° north latitude and invisible south of 78 ° south latitude .
In contrast to Orion , Ophiuchus is in the period November -- January ( summer in the Southern Hemisphere , winter in the Northern Hemisphere ) when Ophiuchus is in the daytime sky and thus not visible at most latitudes .
Stars ( and thus parts of Ophiuchus , especially Rasalhague ) are then visible at twilight for a few hours around local noon , low in the South .
In countries close to the equator Ophiuchus appears overhead in June around midnight and in the October evening sky .
Barnard 's Star , one of the nearest stars to the Solar System ( the only stars closer are the Alpha Centauri binary star system and Proxima Centauri ) , lies in Ophiuchus .
Ophiuchus is located to the left of β and just north of the V-shaped group of stars in an area that was once occupied by the now-obsolete constellation of Taurus Poniatovii ( Poniatowski 's Bull ) .
The planet 's low density ( about 40 % that of Earth ) suggests that the planet may have a substantial component of low-density gas -- possibly hydrogen or steam .
This is consistent with Azophi , who already included ψ Oph and ω Oph as the snake-charmer 's `` left foot '' , and θ Oph and ο Oph as his `` right foot '' , making Ophiuchus a zodiacal constellation at least as regards his feet .
John Milton used Opiuchus as the vehicle for an epic simile in Book 2 of Paradise Lost , comparing Satan to a comet burning across the length of Opiuchus ( lines 706-10 ) : ` on th ' other side / Incensed with indignation Satan stood / Unterrified , and like a comet burned / That fires the length of Opiuchus huge / In th ' arctic sky ' .
The signs of the zodiac are a twelve-fold division of the ecliptic , so that each sign spans 30 ° of celestial longitude , approximately the distance the Sun travels in a month , and ( in the Western tradition ) are aligned with the seasons so that the March equinox falls on the boundary between Aries and Pisces .
This is due to the fact that the time of year that the sun passes through a particular zodiac constellation 's position has slowly changed over the centuries from when the Greeks and Babylonians originally developed the Zodiac .
Owain Glyndŵr refused to accept a pardon and despite large rewards being offered , was never betrayed to the English .
Tudur , Isabel and Lowri are given as Owain Glyndŵr siblings by the more cautious Prof. R R Davies .
As late as 1414 , there were rumours that the Herefordshire-based Lollard leader , Sir John Oldcastle , was communicating with Owain Glyndŵr and reinforcements were sent to the major castles in the north and south .
In Owain Glyndŵr book The Mystery of Jack of Kent and the Fate of Owain Glyndŵr , Alex Gibbon argues that the folk hero Jack of Kent , also known as Siôn Cent -- the family chaplain of the Scudamore family -- was in fact Owain Glyndŵr himself .
A grandchild of the Scudamores was Sir John Donne of Kidwelly , a successful Yorkist courtier , diplomat and soldier , who after 1485 made an accommodation with Owain Glyndŵr fellow Welshman , Henry VII .
The discovery of Owain 's Great Seal and Owain Glyndŵr letters to the French in the Bibliothèque Nationale helped revise historical images of Owain Glyndŵr as a purely local leader .
Owain 's personal standard -- the quartered arms of Powys and Deheubarth rampant -- began to be seen all over Wales , especially at rugby union matches against the English .
An annual award for achievement in the arts and literature , the Glyndŵr Award , is named after Owain Glyndŵr .
For a study of the various ways Owain Glyndŵr has been portrayed in Welsh-language literature of the modern period , see E. Wyn James , Glyndŵr a Gobaith y Genedl : Agweddau ar y Portread o Owain Glyndŵr yn Llenyddiaeth y Cyfnod Modern ( English : Glyndower and the Hope of the Nation : Attitudes to the Portrait of Owen Glyndower in Modern Age Literature ) ( Aberystwyth : Cymdeithas Llyfrau Ceredigion , 2007 ) .
The Right Ascension and month of best visibility given are for the three brightest stars , which are at their highest in the sky during the evening in November .
Since the islands are located at the eastern perimeter of the East China Sea relatively close to Japan , China and South-East Asia , the Ryūkyū Kingdom became a prosperous trading nation .
The Ryūkyū Kingdom was obliged to agree to form a tributary relationship with the Satsuma and the Tokugawa shogunate , while maintaining Okinawa Prefecture previous tributary relationship with China ; Ryukyuan sovereignty was maintained since complete annexation would have created a conflict with China .
27,000 personnel , including 15,000 Marines , contingents from the Navy , Army and Air Force , and their 22,000 family members are stationed in Okinawa Prefecture .
A ban on weapons in Okinawa Prefecture for two long periods after the invasion and forced annexation by Japan during the Meiji Restoration period also very likely contributed to its development .
A traditional craft , the fabric named bingata , is made in workshops on the main island and elsewhere .
The prize was also won by Okinawans in 1967 by Tatsuhiro Oshiro for Cocktail Party ( Kakuteru Pāti ) and in 1971 by Mineo Higashi for Okinawan Boy ( Okinawa Prefecture no Shōnen ) .
In addition , and thirty-six historic sites have been designated for protection by the national government .
Whereas most homes in Japan are made with wood and allow free-flow of air to combat humidity , typical modern homes in Okinawa Prefecture are made from concrete with barred windows ( protection from flying plant matter ) to deal with regular typhoons .
Many roofs also display a statue resembling a lion or dragon , called a shisa , which is said to protect the home from danger .
Between 1965 and 1972 , Okinawa was a key staging point for the United States , in Okinawa Prefecture military operations directed towards North Vietnam .
The military build up on the island during the Cold War increased a division between local inhabitants and the American military .
But as information leaked out , and images of air strikes were published , the local population began to fear the potential for retaliation .
Images of devastation in Vietnam , by planes based and armed in Okinawa Prefecture , led many to see parallels in the two wars .
A 2012 book , Resistant Islands : Okinawa Prefecture Confronts Japan and the United States , argues that the US presence on Okinawa Prefecture , which has provoked strong opposition and resistance among the island 's inhabitants , is not geared towards defending Japan , but rather to serve as part of an American forward deployment strategy aimed at Southeast Asia and China , the stability of which is not important to Japanese commercial or defense interests .
In 1969 , 13,000 tons of poison gas , including sulfur mustard , sarin , and VX , leaked from the chemical weapons storage depot at Chibana in central Okinawa Prefecture .
Between 1972 and 2009 , there were 5,634 criminal offenses committed by US servicemen , including 25 murders , 385 burglaries , 25 arsons , 127 rapes , 306 assaults and 2,827 thefts .
The Japanese tended to oppose the introduction of nuclear arms into Japanese territory by the government 's assertion of non-nuclear policy and a statement of the Three Non-Nuclear Principles .
Between 1954 and 1972 , 19 different types of nuclear weapons were deployed in Okinawa Prefecture , but with less than around 1,000 warheads at any one time .
In 1999 and 2002 , The Japan Times and the Okinawa Prefecture Times reported speculation that not all the supposed weapons were removed from Okinawa Prefecture .
In an interview with the Mainichi Shimbun in 1981 , Edwin O. Reischauer , former U.S. ambassador to Japan , said that U.S. naval ships armed with nukes stopped at Japanese ports on a routine duty and this was approved by the Japanese government .
The move is partly an attempt to relieve tensions between the people of Okinawa Prefecture and the Marine Corps .
Protests from environmental groups and residents over the construction of part of a runway at Camp Schwab , and from businessmen and politicians around Futenma and Henoko , have occurred .
Association football Basketball Handball In addition , various baseball teams hold training during the winter in the prefecture as Okinawa Prefecture is the warmest prefecture of Japan with no snow and higher temperatures than other prefectures .
There are numerous golf courses in Okinawa Prefecture , and there was formerly a professional tournament called the Okinawa Prefecture Open .
Olive oil is used throughout the world , but especially in the Mediterranean countries and , in particular , in Greece where the largest consumption per person can be found .
Olive trees were certainly cultivated by the Late Minoan period ( 1500 BC ) in Crete , and perhaps as early as the Early Minoan .
Olive trees and oil production in the Eastern Mediterranean can be traced to archives of the ancient city-state Ebla ( 2600 -- 2240 BC ) , which were located on the outskirts of the Syrian city Aleppo .
The Minoans put the pulp into settling tanks and , when Olive oil had risen to the top , drained the water from the bottom .
The importance and antiquity of olive oil can be seen in the fact that the English word oil derives from c. 1175 , olive oil , from Anglo-Fr .
On March 15 , 2011 , the Florence , Italy prosecutor 's office , working in conjunction with the forestry department , indicted two managers and an officer of Carapelli , one of the brands of the Spanish company Grupo SOS ( which recently changed its name to Deoleo ) .
In February 2012 , an alleged international olive oil scam occurred in which palm , avocado , sunflower and other cheaper oils were passed off as olive oil .
The label term `` cold-extraction '' on extra virgin olive oils indicates that the olive grinding and stirring was done at a temperature of maximum , as treatment in higher temperatures risks decreasing the olive oils ' quality ( texture , taste and aroma ) .
As Olive oil are the least processed forms of olive oil , extra virgin or virgin olive oil have more monounsaturated fatty acids than other olive oil .
There has been relatively little scientific work done on the effect of olive oil on acne and other skin conditions .
This decision was announced November 1 , 2004 , by the Food and Drug Administration after application was made to the FDA by producers .
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( Mormons ) and a number of other religions use olive oil when they need to consecrate an oil for anointings .
In the Orthodox Church , olive oil is a product not consumed during lent or penance while Orthodox monks use Olive oil sparingly in their diet .
Olive oil is also reported to have been recommended by Prophet Muhammad in the following terms : `` Consume olive oil and anoint Olive oil upon your bodies since Olive oil is of the blessed tree '' .
The olive ( or , Olive , meaning `` Oil from/of Europe '' ) is a species of small tree in the family Oleaceae , native to the coastal areas of the eastern Mediterranean Basin as well as northern Iraq , and northern Iran at the south of the Caspian Sea .
Olive , Olive , is an evergreen tree or shrub native to the Mediterranean , Asia and Africa .
Fossil Olea pollen has been found in Macedonia , Greece , and other places around the Mediterranean , indicating that this genus is an original element of the Mediterranean flora .
Greek myth attributed to the primordial culture-hero Aristaeus the understanding of olive husbandry , along with cheese-making and bee-keeping .
According to Pliny the Elder a vine , a fig and Olive grew in the middle of the Roman Forum , the latter was planted to provide shade ( the garden plot was recreated in the 20th century ) .
Olive Olive are mentioned over 30 times in the Bible , in both the New and Old Testaments .
The Allegory of the Olive Tree in St. Paul 's Epistle to the Romans ( which reappears in greatly expanded form in the Book of Jacob in the Book of Mormon ) refers to the scattering and gathering of Israel .
Olive Olive are mentioned seven times in the Quran , and Olive is praised as a precious fruit .
Olive and olive-oil health benefits have been propounded in Prophetic medicine .
The Prophet Mohamed is reported to have said : `` Take oil of olive and massage with Olive -- Olive is a blessed tree '' ( Sunan al-Darimi , 69:103 ) .
For that is a material which neither decay , nor the weather , nor time can harm , but even though buried in the earth or set in the water Olive keeps sound and useful forever .
And so not only city walls but substructures in general and all walls that require a thickness like that of a city wall , will be long in falling to decay if tied in this manner .
It is estimated that there are about 865 million olive trees in the world today ( as of 2005 ) , and the vast majority of these are found in Mediterranean countries , although traditionally marginal areas account for no more than 25 % of olive planted area and 10 % of oil production .
The olive tree , Olea europaea , is very hardy : drought - , disease - and fire-resistant , Olive can live to a great age .
Several trees in the Garden of Gethsemane ( from the Hebrew words `` gat shemanim '' or olive press ) in Jerusalem are claimed to date back to the purported time of Jesus .
Olive , Olive , has been cultivated for Olive oil , fine wood , olive leaf , and the olive fruit .
Since many cultivars are self-sterile or nearly so , Olive are generally planted in pairs with a single primary cultivar and a secondary cultivar selected for Olive ability to fertilize the primary one .
Olive , Olive , show a marked preference for calcareous soils , flourishing best on limestone slopes and crags , and coastal climate conditions .
In Italy , embryonic buds , which form small swellings on the stems , are carefully excised and planted under the soil surface , where Olive soon form a vigorous shoot .
Salt cured olives ( also known as dry cured ) are packed in plain salt for at least a month , which produces a salty and wrinkled olive .
As the climate of South Australia is very dry and bushfire prone , the oil rich feral olive tree substantially increases the fire hazard of native sclerophyll woodlands .
Otho belonged to an ancient and noble Etruscan family , descended from the princes of Etruria and settled at Ferentinum ( modern Ferento , near Viterbo ) in Etruria .
Otho was then escorted to the Praetorian camp , where , after a few moments of surprise and indecision , Otho was saluted as Imperator .
With an imposing force Otho returned to the Roman Forum , and at the foot of the Capitoline Hill encountered Galba , who , alarmed by rather vague rumors of treachery , was making Otho way through a dense crowd of wandering citizens towards the barracks of the guard .
Nero 's statues were again set up , Otho freedmen and household officers reinstalled ( including the young castrated boy Sporus whom Nero had taken in marriage and Otho would also live intimately with ) , and the intended completion of the Golden House announced .
This is fanciful , as is the alleged connection to the German families of Anhalt , Baden and Bohemian Rosenberg sporting the same name .
One of the first great nepotist popes , he made two of his nephews cardinals and allowed his cousin Giovanni Gaetano ( Giangaetano , died 1232 ) to buy the fiefs of Vicovaro , Licenza , Roccagiovine and Nettuno , which formed the nucleus of the future territorial power of Orsini family .
He had some ten sons , which divided the fiefs after his deaths : Gentile ( died 1246 ) originated the Pitigliano line and the second southern line .
Rinaldo that of Monterotondo , Napoleone ( died 1267 ) that of Bracciano and another Matteo Rosso that of Montegiordano , from the name of the district in Rome housing Orsini family fortress .
The most distinguished of his sons was however Giovanni Gaetano ( died 1280 ) : elected pope as Nicholas III , he named the nephew Bertoldo ( died 1289 ) as count of Romagna and had two nephews and a brother created cardinals .
Bertoldo 's son , Gentile II ( 1250 -- 1318 ) , was two times Senator of Rome , podestà of Viterbo and , from 1314 , Gran Giustiziere ( `` Great Justicer '' ) of the Kingdom of Naples .
Among his sons , Giacomo ( died 1379 ) was created cardinal by Gregory XI in 1371 , while Nicola ( August 27 , 1331 -- February 14 , 1399 ) obtained the counties of Ariano and Celano .
Bertoldo ( died 1417 ) managed to keep only Pitigliano , while his grandson Orso ( died July 5 , 1479 ) was count of Nola and fought as condottiere under the Duke of Milan and the Republic of Venice .
His sons Giacomo ( died 1482 ) and Lorenzo ( 1452 ) battled for the Papal States , Naples and Florence .
Orsini family last representatives Enrico ( died September 12 , 1643 ) and Francesco ( 1592 - September 21 , 1650 ) sold Monterotondo to the Barberini in 1641 .
Napoleone , another son of Matteo Rosso the Great , received Bracciano , Nerola and other lands in what is now northern Lazio .
After Carlo 's death , he enlarged Orsini family tenure with lands inherited by his wife , another Orsini from Salerno , and most of all he was amongst the favourites of Ferdinand I of Naples , who appointed him as Great Connestable of Naples .
This , along with a general economical decadence , damaged the dukedom , and last Duke and Prince , Flavio ( March 4 , 1620 -- April 5 , 1698 ) was forced by the huge debts to sell it to the Odescalchi and others .
Two of Francesco 's son , Marino ( died 1471 ) and Giovanni Battista ( died June 8 , 1476 ) , were respectively archbishop of Taranto and Grand Master of Knights of Rhodes .
With no sons or male-line descendants , the heir to the dukedom of Gravina is his unmarried brother Don Benedetto Orsini ( b. 1956 ) , followed by his cousin Prince Raimondo Orsini d'Aragona ( b. 1931 ) , who has one son by his marriage to Princess Kethevan Bagration-Mukhransky ( b. 1954 ) , Don Lelio Nicolò Orsini ( b. 1981 ) .
Orsini family , the Rosenbergs changed its name to Ursini-Rosenberg ( and subsequently to Orsini-Rosenberg ) in 1683 , while creating spurious claims of kinship to the Orsini , which were regarded at the time as more prestigious .
The most common of these , geometric optics , treats light as a collection of rays that travel in straight lines and bend when Optics pass through or reflect from surfaces .
Ptolemy , in his treatise Optics , held an extramission-intromission theory of vision : the rays ( or flux ) from the eye formed a cone , the vertex being within the eye , and the base defining the visual field .
In the early 11th century , Alhazen ( Ibn al-Haytham ) wrote the Book of Optics ( Kitab al-manazir ) in which he explored reflection and refraction and proposed a new system for explaining vision and light based on observation and experiment .
He rejected the `` emission theory '' of Ptolemaic optics with Optics rays being emitted by the eye , and instead put forward the idea that light reflected in all directions in straight lines from all points of the objects being viewed and then entered the eye , although he was unable to explain the correct mechanism of how the eye captured the rays .
Grosseteste 's most famous disciple , Roger Bacon , wrote works citing a wide range of recently translated Optics and philosophical works , including those of Alhazen , Aristotle , Avicenna , Averroes , Euclid , al-Kindi , Ptolemy , Tideus , and Constantine the African .
Optics theory progressed in the mid-17th century with treatises written by philosopher René Descartes , which explained a variety of Optics phenomena including reflection and refraction by assuming that light was emitted by objects which produced it .
In the late 1660s and early 1670s , Newton expanded Descartes ' ideas into a corpuscle theory of light , famously showing that white light , instead of being a unique colour , was really a composite of different colours that can be separated into a spectrum with a prism .
The next development in Optics theory came in 1899 when Max Planck correctly modelled blackbody radiation by assuming that the exchange of energy between Optics and matter only occurred in discrete amounts he called quanta .
The ultimate culmination , the theory of quantum electrodynamics , explains all optics and electromagnetic processes in general as the result of the exchange of real and virtual photons .
When a ray of light hits the boundary between two transparent materials , Optics is divided into a reflected and a refracted ray .
This leads to the techniques of Gaussian optics and paraxial ray tracing , which are used to find basic properties of Optics systems , such as approximate image and object positions and magnifications .
This allows for production of reflected images that can be associated with an actual ( real ) or extrapolated ( virtual ) location in space .
Many diffuse reflectors are described or can be approximated by Lambert 's cosine law , which describes surfaces that have equal luminance when viewed from any angle .
The incident and reflected rays and the normal lie in a single plane , and the angle between the reflected ray and the surface normal is the same as that between the incident ray and the normal .
For flat mirrors , the law of reflection implies that images of objects are upright and the same distance behind the mirror as the objects are in front of the mirror .
It is also possible to produce polarised light rays using a combination of reflection and refraction : When a refracted ray and the reflected ray form a right angle , the reflected ray has the property of `` plane polarization '' .
More rigorous models , involving the modelling of both electric and magnetic fields of the light wave , are required when dealing with the detailed interaction of light with materials where the interaction depends on their electric and magnetic properties .
Later that century , Robert Hooke and Isaac Newton also described phenomena now known to be diffraction in Newton 's rings while James Gregory recorded his observations of diffraction patterns from bird feathers .
In general , the equation takes the form where is the separation between two wavefront sources ( in the case of Young 's experiments , it was two slits ) , is the angular separation between the central fringe and the th order fringe , where the central maximum is .
In general , light that is passing through an aperture will experience diffraction and the best images that can be created ( as described in diffraction-limited optics ) appear as a central spot with surrounding bright rings , separated by dark nulls ; this pattern is known as an Airy pattern , and the central bright lobe as an Airy disk .
For a uniform medium , the group velocity is where n is the index of refraction and c is the speed of light in a vacuum .
The result of group velocity dispersion , whether negative or positive , is ultimately temporal spreading of the pulse .
This makes dispersion management extremely important in optical communications systems based on optical fibres , since if dispersion is too high , a group of pulses representing information will each spread in time and merge , making Optics impossible to extract the signal .
If the polarization is consistent across the spectrum of the source , Optics can be described as a superposition of a completely unpolarised component , and a completely polarised one .
These areas of Optics science typically relate to the electromagnetic or quantum properties of light but do include other topics .
Likewise , since cone cells are in the fovea , central vision ( including the vision needed to do most reading , fine detail work such as sewing , or careful examination of objects ) is done by cone cells .
As people age , the lens becomes less flexible and the near point recedes from the eye , a condition known as presbyopia .
For presbyopia and hyperopia , a converging lens provides the extra curvature necessary to bring the near point closer to the eye while for myopia a diverging lens provides the curvature necessary to send the far point to infinity .
A camera 's aperture is measured by a unitless number called the f-number or f-stop , where is the focal length , and is the diameter of the entrance pupil .
The absolute value for the exposure time required depends on how sensitive to light the medium being used is ( measured by the film speed , or , for digital media , by the quantum efficiency ) .
In astrophysics and physical cosmology , Olbers ' paradox , named after the German astronomer Heinrich Wilhelm Olbers ( 1758 -- 1840 ) and also called the `` dark night sky paradox '' , is Olbers' paradox that the darkness of the night sky conflicts with the assumption of an infinite and eternal static universe .
Mathematically , the total electromagnetic energy density ( radiation energy density ) in thermodynamic equilibrium from Planck 's law is e.g. for temperature 2.7 K it is 40 fJ/m3 ... 4.5 & times ; 10 & minus ; 31 kg/m3 and for visible 6000 K we get 1 J/m3 ... 1.1 & times ; 10 & minus ; 17 kg/m3 .
But the total radiation emitted by a star ( or other cosmic object ) is at most equal to the total nuclear binding energy of isotopes in the star .
This would not resolve the paradox given the following argument : According to the laws of thermodynamics , the intermediate matter must eventually heat up ( or cool down , if Olbers' paradox was initially hotter ) until Olbers' paradox is in thermal equilibrium with the surrounding stars .
Suppose that the universe were not expanding , and always had the same stellar density ; then the temperature of the universe would continually increase as the stars put out more radiation .
Eventually , Olbers' paradox would reach 3000 K ( corresponding to a typical photon energy of 0.3 eV and so a frequency of 7.5 & times ; 1013 Hz ) , and the photons would begin to be absorbed by the hydrogen plasma filling most of the universe , rendering outer space opaque .
The German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer designates this `` inner nature '' with the term Will , and suggests that science and mathematics are unable to penetrate beyond the relationship between one thing and another in order to explain the `` inner nature '' of the thing Occult , independent of any external causal relationships with other `` things '' .
Some other religious denominations disapprove of occultism in most or all forms .
The word has negative connotations for many people , and while certain practices considered by some to be `` occult '' are also found within mainstream religions , in this context the term `` occult '' is rarely used and is sometimes substituted with `` esoteric '' .
Yantra , literally : `` instrument '' or `` tool '' are geometric diagrams are considered to be the subtle or finer representation of the psychological or natural powers that are the deities , the proper use of which would result in the yantra becoming `` activated '' and infused with the particular powers and capacities of the said deity , for the practitioner or adept to put to his or her use .
The Atharva Veda , representing an independent tradition markedly different from the other three Vedas , is a rich source parallel to the Vedic traditions of the Rig , Sam , and Yajur Vedas , containing detailed descriptions of various kinds of magical rituals for different results ranging from punishing enemies , to acquisition of wealth , health , long life , or a good harvest .
Further , the father of the Lurianic School of Kabbalah , Isaac Luria ( known as the Ari HaKadosh , or the `` Holy Lion '' ) , was not yet 40 years old when he passed away .
The name was settled upon statehood , Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory were merged and Indian was dropped from the name .
In addition to having a prevalence of English , German , Scottish , Irish and Native American ancestry , more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma later became the de facto name for Oklahoma Territory , and it was officially approved in 1890 , two years after the area was opened to white settlers .
The border between Texas and New Mexico was set first as a result of a survey by Spain in 1819 .
In the 1890s , when Oklahoma was formally surveyed using more accurate surveying equipment and techniques , it was discovered that the Texas line was not set along the 103rd Meridian .
Oklahoma is between the Great Plains and the Ozark Plateau in the Gulf of Mexico watershed , generally sloping from the high plains of Oklahoma western boundary to the low wetlands of Oklahoma southeastern boundary .
Oklahoma highest and lowest points follow this trend , with Oklahoma highest peak , Black Mesa , at 4,973 feet ( 1,516 m ) above sea level , situated near Oklahoma far northwest corner in the Oklahoma Panhandle .
Oklahoma western and eastern halves , however , are marked by extreme differences in geographical diversity : Eastern Oklahoma touches eight ecological regions and Oklahoma western half contains three .
The semi-arid high plains in Oklahoma northwestern corner harbor few natural forests ; the region has a rolling to flat landscape with intermittent canyons and mesa ranges like the Glass Mountains .
Most of Oklahoma lies in two primary drainage basins belonging to the Red and Arkansas rivers , though the Lee and Little rivers also contain significant drainage basins .
Where rainfall is sparse in the western regions of Oklahoma , shortgrass prairie and shrublands are the most prominent ecosystems , though pinyon pines , red cedar ( junipers ) , and ponderosa pines grow near rivers and creek beds in the far western reaches of the panhandle .
Most of Oklahoma lies in an area known as Tornado Alley characterized by frequent interaction between cold and warm air masses producing severe weather .
All of the state frequently experiences temperatures above 100 ° F ( 38 ° C ) or below 0 ° F ( − 18 ° C ) , and snowfall ranges from an average of less than 4 in cm 0 in the south to just over on the border of Colorado in the panhandle .
In the period between 1866 and 1899 , cattle ranches in Texas strove to meet the demands for food in eastern cities and railroads in Kansas promised to deliver in a timely manner .
Tulsa eventually became known as the `` Oil Capital of the World '' for most of the 20th century and oil investments fueled much of Oklahoma early economy .
In one of the costliest episodes of racial violence in American history , sixteen hours of rioting resulted in 35 city blocks destroyed , $ 1.8 million in property damage , and a death toll estimated to be as high as 300 people .
The Oklahoma City bombing of April 19 , 1995 , in which Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols detonated an explosive outside of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building , killed 168 people , including 19 children .
Though oil has historically dominated Oklahoma economy , a collapse in the energy industry during the 1980s led to the loss of nearly 90,000 energy-related jobs between 1980 and 2000 , severely damaging the local economy .
In mid-2011 , Oklahoma had a civilian labor force of 1.7 million and total non-farm employment fluctuated around 1.5 million .
Eight and a half percent of the nation 's natural gas supply is held in Oklahoma , with being produced in 2009 .
Mary Linn , an associate professor of anthropology at the University of Oklahoma and the associate curator of Native American languages at the Sam Noble Museum , said that Oklahoma also has high levels of language endangerment .
These were Yvonne Chouteau , sisters Marjorie and Maria Tallchief , Rosella Hightower and Moscelyne Larkin , known collectively as the Five Moons .
Historically , Oklahoma has produced musical styles such as The Tulsa Sound and Western Swing , which was popularized at Cain 's Ballroom in Tulsa .
The building , known as the `` Carnegie Hall of Western Swing '' , served as the performance headquarters of Bob Wills and the Texas Playboys during the 1930s .
The Philbrook Museum of Tulsa is considered one of the top 50 fine art museums in the United States , and the Sam Noble Oklahoma Museum of Natural History in Norman , one of the largest university-based art and history museums in the country , documents the natural history of the region .
The Egyptian art collection at the Mabee-Gerrer Museum of Art in Shawnee is considered to be the finest Egyptian collection between Chicago , IL and Los Angeles , CA .
With remnants of the Holocaust and artifacts relevant to Judaism , the Sherwin Miller Museum of Jewish Art of Tulsa preserves the largest collection of Jewish art in the Southwest United States .
In 2006 , Tulsa 's Oktoberfest was named one of the top 10 in the world by USA Today and one of the top German food festivals in the nation by Bon Appetit magazine .
Ranked near the bottom of states in expenditures per student , Oklahoma spent $ 7,755 for each student in 2008 , 47th in the nation , though Oklahoma growth of total education expenditures between 1992 and 2002 ranked 22nd .
In the 2007 -- 2008 school year , there were 181,973 undergraduate students , 20,014 graduate students , and 4,395 first-professional degree students enrolled in Oklahoma colleges .
Broadcast television in Oklahoma began in 1949 when KFOR-TV ( then WKY-TV ) in Oklahoma City and KOTV-TV in Tulsa began broadcasting a few months apart .
The Oklahoman , based in Oklahoma City , is the largest newspaper in Oklahoma and 54th-largest in the nation by circulation , with a weekday readership of 138,493 and a Sunday readership of 202,690 .
The Tulsa World , the second most widely circulated newspaper in Oklahoma and 79th in the nation , holds a Sunday circulation of 132,969 and a weekday readership of 93,558 .
In 2006 , there were more than 220 newspapers located in Oklahoma , including 177 with weekly publications and 48 with daily publications .
Oklahoma first radio station , WKY in Oklahoma City , signed on in 1920 , followed by KRFU in Bristow , which later on moved to Tulsa and became KVOO in 1927 .
Oklahoma has a few ethnic-oriented TV stations broadcasting in Spanish , Asian languages and sometimes have Native American programming .
This is not to say that every election has been a landslide for Republicans : Jimmy Carter lost Oklahoma by less than 1.5 % in 1976 , while Michael Dukakis and Bill Clinton both won 40 % or more of Oklahoma popular vote in 1988 and 1996 respectively .
Most people from Oklahoma who self-identify as having American ancestry are of overwhelmingly English ancestry with significant amounts of Scottish and Welsh inflection as well .
The state 's 2006 per capita personal income ranked 37th at $ 32,210 , though Oklahoma has the third-fastest growing per capita income in the nation and ranks consistently among the lowest states in cost of living index .
Oklahoma is part of a geographical region characterized by conservative and Evangelical Christianity known as the `` Bible Belt '' .
Spanning the southeastern United States , the area is known for politically and socially conservative views , even though Oklahoma has more voters registered with the Democratic Party than with any other party .
Oklahoma largest church memberships are in the Southern Baptist Convention with 967,223 members , the United Methodist Church , with 322,794 members , the Roman Catholic Church , with 168,625 , the Assemblies of God , with 88,301 , Churches of Christ with 83,047 , and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints with 24,564 ( 43,905 year-end 2011 ) .
One example is Doxbridge , an annual inter-collegiate sports tournament between some of the colleges of Durham , Oxford , York and Cambridge , while Woxbridge is seen in the name of the annual Woxbridge conference between the business schools of Warwick , Oxford and Cambridge .
Osman Gazi appreciated the opinions of Edebali ( the famous Ahi Sheik ) and Osman I respected Osman I .
Osman I often went to Edebali 's house where a dervish group meets in Eskisehir Sultanonu and been Osman I guest .
The fact that the emblem by which a sultan was enthroned consisted of a sword was highly symbolic : it showed that the office with which Osman I was invested was first and foremost that of a warrior .
Orhan or Orhan Bey ( Ottoman : , Orhan Gazi ; 1281 -- March 1362 ) was the second bey of the nascent Ottoman Empire ( then known as the Ottoman Beylik or Emirate ) from 1326 to 1362 .
The majority of these areas were under Byzantine rule and Orhan I won Orhan I first battle , at Pelekanon , against the Byzantine Emperor Andronikos III Palaiologos .
Orhan then told Orhan I , `` Since , Orhan I brother , thou will not take the flocks and the herds that Orhan I offer thee , be thou the shepherd of Orhan I people ; be Orhan I Vizier '' .
Orhan 's predecessors , Ertughrul and Osman , had made war at the head of the armed vassals and volunteers .
The general diffusion of Turkish populations over Anatolia , before Osman 's time , was in main part a push from the Mongol conquest of Central Asia , Iran and then East Anatolia .
The splendour of the wedding between Orhan and Theodora at Salymbria ( Silivri ) is elaborately described by Byzantine writers .
In 1352 the rivalry for trade led to a war between Genoa and Venice .
Orhan was against the Venetians , whose fleets and piratical raids were disrupting Orhan I seaward provinces , and who had met Orhan I diplomatic overtures with contempt .
In the midst of the distress and confusion that the Byzantine Empire now suffered , Orhan 's eldest son , Suleyman Pasha , captured the Castle of Tzympe ( Cinbi ) in a bold move which gave the Turks a permanent foothold on the European side of the Dardanelles Straits .
But very soon John V returned from exile with Venetian help and to conduct a coup taking over the government of Constantinople .
Khalil , the son of Orhan and Theodora , was abducted somewhere on the Bay of Izmit .
A Genoese commercial boat captain , which was conducting acts of piracy alongside commercial activity , was able to capture the young prince and take Orhan I over to Phocaea on the Aegean Sea , which was under Genoese rule .
In 1357 Orhan 's eldest and most experienced son and likely heir , Suleyman Pasha , died after injuries sustained from a fall from a horse near Bolayir on the coast of the sea of Marmara .
Sultan Osman II or Othman II ( commonly known as Genç Osman -- meaning Osman the Young -- in Turkish ) ( Ottoman Turkish عثمان ثانى ` Osmān-i sānī ) ( November 3 , 1604 -- May 20 , 1622 ) was the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1618 until Osman II death on 20 May 1622 .
Oberon (programming language) is a programming language created in 1986 by Professor Niklaus Wirth ( creator of Oberon (programming language) languages Algol-W , Pascal , Modula , and Modula-2 ) and his associates at ETH Zurich in Switzerland .
Oberon (programming language) was designed for Oberon (programming language) operating system which ran on the Ceres workstation ( built around the National Semiconductor 32032 CPU ) and the Chameleon workstation .
Oberon is designed to be a ` safe ' language ; Oberon (programming language) employs array bounds checking , garbage collection and strong type checking .
Oberon (programming language) may be made public to other modules by suffixing them with a visibility flag , namely an asterisk ( Local variables , types , constants , and procedures are always visible only to the declaring procedure .
No-cost implementations of Oberon ( the language ) and Oberon ( the operating system ) can be found on the Internet ( several are from ETHZ Oberon (programming language) ) .
Oberon-07 , defined by Niklaus Wirth in 2007 and revised in 2011 , is based on the original version of Oberon (programming language) rather than Oberon-2 .
Active Oberon (programming language) is yet another variant of Oberon (programming language) , which adds objects ( with object-centered access protection and local activity control ) , system-guarded assertions , preemptive priority scheduling and a slightly changed syntax for methods ( aka type-bound procedures in the Oberon (programming language) world ) .
Oberon (programming language) Oberon (programming language) is a descendant of Oberon (programming language) designed for numerical applications on supercomputers , especially vector or pipelined architectures .
Oberon (programming language) includes array constructors and an ALL statement .
Oberon (programming language) is a programming language created in 1986 by Professor Niklaus Wirth ( creator of the programming languages Algol-W , Pascal , Modula , and Modula-2 ) and his associates at ETH Zurich in Switzerland .
Oberon (programming language) is threads or processes .
Oberon (programming language) is a descendant of Oberon designed for numerical applications on supercomputers , especially vector or pipelined architectures .
OpenGL ( OpenGL ) is a cross-language , multi-platform API for rendering 2D and 3D computer graphics .
This was because IRIS GL was considered easier to use , and because OpenGL supported immediate mode rendering .
SGI 's competitors ( including Sun Microsystems , Hewlett-Packard and IBM ) were also able to bring to market 3D hardware , supported by extensions made to the PHIGS standard .
In addition , SGI had a large number of software customers ; by changing to the OpenGL API , OpenGL planned to keep their customers locked onto SGI ( and IBM ) hardware for a few years while market support for OpenGL matured .
OpenGL standardized access to hardware , pushed the development responsibility of hardware interface programs ( sometimes called device drivers ) to hardware manufacturers , and delegated windowing functions to the underlying operating system .
The first version of OpenGL , version 1.0 , was released in January 1992 by Mark Segal and Kurt Akeley .
Like the assembly-like shading languages that OpenGL was replacing , OpenGL allowed the programmer to replace the fixed-function vertex and fragment pipe with shaders , though this time written in a C-like high-level language .
Most complaints revolved around the lack of communication by Khronos to the development community and multiple features being discarded that were viewed favorably by many .
Jupiter and Venus , for example , are respectively about 5.2 and 0.723 AU distant from the Sun , their orbital periods respectively about 11.86 and 0.615 years .
The first calculation of the relativistic distortion came from the speed of Orbit and the strength of the solar gravity field because these are enough to cause Mercury 's orbital elements to change .
At a specific velocity called escape velocity , again dependent on the firing height and mass of the planet , Orbit .
A prograde or retrograde impulse ( i.e. an impulse applied along Orbit ) changes both the eccentricity and the orbital period .
A transverse impulse ( out of the orbital plane ) causes rotation of the orbital plane without changing the period or eccentricity .
The standard analysis of Orbit bodies assumes that all bodies consist of uniform spheres , or more generally , concentric shells each of uniform density .
One approximate result is that bodies will usually have reasonably stable orbits around a heavier planet or moon , in spite of these perturbations , provided Orbit are orbiting well within the heavier body 's Hill sphere .
When all densities are multiplied by 4 , and all sizes are halved , Orbit are similar ; masses are divided by 2 , gravitational forces are the same , gravitational accelerations are doubled .
Off spin is a type of bowling in the sport of cricket which is bowled by Off spin , a right-handed spin bowler who uses his or her fingers and/or wrist to spin Off spin from a right-handed batsman 's off side to the leg side ( that is , towards the right-handed batsman , or away from a left-handed batsman ) .
Off spin is a type of bowling in the sport of cricket which is bowled by an off spinner , a right-handed spin bowler who uses his or her fingers and/or wrist to spin the ball from a right-handed batsman 's off side to the leg side ( that is , towards the right-handed batsman , or away from a left-handed batsman ) .
Whereas a biotic stress would include such living disturbances as fungi or harmful insects , abiotic stress factors , or stressors , are naturally occurring , often intangible , factors such as intense sunlight or wind that may cause harm to the plants and animals in the area affected .
So , a taiga or boreal forest is at the mercy of whatever abiotic stress factors may come along , while tropical zones are much less susceptible to such stressors .
Every tree that is scorched and each bird nest that is devoured is a sign of Abiotic stress .
Another example of this is in phytoplankton and zooplankton .
Abiotic stress act very similarly when exposed to ultraviolet light and most toxins , but at elevated temperatures the phytoplankton reacts negatively , while the thermophilic zooplankton reacts positively to the increase in temperature .
Facilitation , or the positive interactions between different species of plants , is an intricate web of association in a natural environment .
When a group of different plant species was prompted by a variety of different stress signals , such as drought or cold , each plant responded uniquely .
This means that species are more likely to become population threatened , endangered , and even extinct , when and where abiotic stress is especially harsh .
Robert Stanley Weir wrote in 1908 another English version , which is the official and most popular version , one that is not a literal translation of the French .
`` O Canada '' had served as a de facto national anthem since 1939 , officially becoming Canada 's national anthem in 1980 when the Act of Parliament making O Canada so received Royal Assent and became effective on July 1 as part of that year 's Dominion Day celebrations .
O Canada has been noted that the opening theme of `` O Canada '' bears a strong resemblance to the `` March of the Priests '' from the opera The Magic Flute , composed in 1791 by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart , and that Lavallée 's melody was inspired by Mozart 's tune .
In the context of Tennyson 's poem `` To the Queen '' , the word `` true '' means `` loyal '' or `` faithful '' .
However , three quarters of Canadians polled after the speech objected to the proposal and , two days later , the prime minister 's office announced that the Cabinet had decided to leave O Canada alone .
The original French lyrics of `` O Canada '' were written by Sir Adolphe-Basile Routhier , to music composed by Calixa Lavallée , as a French Canadian patriotic song for the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society and first performed on June 24 , 1880 , at a Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day banquet in Quebec City .
At that time , the `` Chant National '' , also by Routhier , was popular amongst Francophones as O Canada , while `` God Save the Queen '' and `` The Maple Leaf Forever '' had , since 1867 , been competing as unofficial national anthems in English Canada .
`` O Canada '' joined that fray when a group of school children sang O Canada for the 1901 tour of Canada by the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall ( later King George V and Queen Mary ) .
Still , by-laws and practices governing the use of song during public events in municipalities varied ; in Toronto , `` God Save the Queen '' was employed , while in Montreal O Canada was `` O Canada '' .
O Canada is the most widely accepted and performed version of this song .
Oberlin Collegiate Institute ( as Oberlin College was originally called ) was built on of land specifically donated by the previous owners , Titus Street , founder of Streetsboro , Ohio and Samuel Hughes , who lived in Connecticut .
In 1844 , Oberlin College graduated Oberlin College first black student , George B. Vashon who became one of the founding professors at Howard University and the first black lawyer admitted to the Bar in New York State .
The African Americans of Oberlin and those attending Oberlin College `` have experienced intense challenges and immense accomplishments since their joint founding in 1833 .
These four women , who were the first to enter as full students , were Mary Kellogg ( Fairchild ) , Mary Caroline Rudd , Mary Hosford , and Elizabeth Prall .
In 1858 , both students and faculty were involved in the controversial Oberlin-Wellington Rescue of a fugitive slave , which received national press coverage .
Two participants in this raid , Lewis Sheridan Leary and John Anthony Copeland , along with another Oberlin resident , Shields Green , also participated in John Brown 's Raid on Harpers Ferry .
Oberlin 's older dormitories , such as Keep , Pyle , and Tank , were characterized by a home-like environment .
Historian Geoffrey Blodgett , a professor and graduate of Oberlin , pointed out that campus dorms caused anger among students during the 1960s .
The program , `` Kennedy and Company , '' sought to reveal the `` darker '' side of co-ed dorm life from parents ' perspective .
Of Oberlin 's nearly 3,000 students , nearly 2,400 are enrolled in Oberlin College in both College and Conservatory under the five-year Double-Degree program .
The Oberlin Student Cooperative Association , or OSCA , is a non-profit corporation that houses 175 students in four housing co-ops and feeds 620 students in nine dining co-ops .
Oberlin College budget is more than $ 2 million , making Oberlin College the third-largest of Oberlin College kind in North America behind the Berkeley Student Cooperative and the Inter-Cooperative Council of Ann Arbor , and by far the largest relative to the size of the institution whose students Oberlin College serves .
In the 1960s the arch , shown at right , became a rallying point for the College 's civil rights activists and Oberlin College anti-war movement .
The entirely student-run Oberlin College Marching Band ( OCMB ) , founded in 1998 , performs at various sporting events including football games , women 's rugby , and pep rallies throughout the year .
The college radio station WOBC-FM , and the party circuit ( including the popular on-campus venue , The ` Sco ) contribute to the campus music scene .
The College architect , Steve Varelmann , has called the numbers `` erratic and possibly unreliable '' .
Student activists and members of the surrounding town joined together to form the One Town Campaign , which sought to challenge this policy .
On February 13 , 2013 , a forum at the Oberlin Public Library with over 200 people in attendance , including members of the college administration , the Oberlin city council and national press , saw speakers compare the atmosphere of Oberlin College to `` a gated community '' .
Oliver Laurence ` Ollie ' North ( born October 7 , 1943 ) is a former United States Marine Corps Lieutenant Colonel , Republican political commentator and television host , military historian , and New York Times best-selling author .
This included leading the hunt for those responsible for the 1983 Beirut barracks bombing that killed 299 American and French military personnel , an effort that saw North arranging a midair interception of an EgyptAir jet carrying those responsible for the Achille Lauro hijacking .
Congress passed the Boland Amendment ( to the House Appropriations Bill of 1982 and subsequent years ) which prohibited the appropriation of U.S. funds by intelligence agencies for the support of the Contras .
In an August 23 , 1986 e-mail to National Security Advisor John Poindexter , Oliver North described a meeting with a representative of Panamanian President Manuel Noriega : `` You will recall that over the years Manuel Noriega in Panama and Oliver North have developed a fairly good relationship , '' North writes before explaining Noriega 's proposal .
North admitted shredding government documents related to Oliver North Contra and Iranian activities , at William Casey 's suggestion , when the Iran -- Contra scandal became public .
Oliver North also testified that Robert McFarlane had asked Oliver North to alter official records to delete references to direct assistance to the Contras and that Oliver North had helped .
Hannity , Oliver North , and other charity spokespersons claim that all of the net proceeds from the Freedom Concerts are donated to the fund .
Such forms as whom , them , and her derive rather from the old Germanic dative forms , of which the - m and - r endings are characteristic .
This conflation of the old Accusative case , dative , instrumental , and ( after prepositions ) genitive cases is the oblique case .
Just as with pronouns nouns , many inflected languages make distinctions between cases for adjectives and ( for languages that have them ) articles .
Another factor that determines the endings of adjectives is whether the adjective is being used after Accusative case , after an indefinite article ( a/an ) or without any article before the adjective ( many green apples ) .
Accusative case is identical either to the nominative or the genitive , except for personal pronouns and the personal interrogative pronoun kuka/ken , which have a special Accusative case form ending in - t , kenet .
The major new Finnish grammar , Iso suomen kielioppi , breaks with the traditional classification to limit Accusative case to the special case of the personal pronouns and kuka/ken .
The accusative case in Hungarian applies to nouns , pronouns ; even to adjectives and numerals when either of them stands alone in the sense of direct object .
In the 16th century , the town was the meeting-place of several parliaments , and down to 1805 Odense was the seat of the provincial assembly of Funen .
By road , Odense connects to Zealand and Jutland by way of the Funish Motorway ( Fynske Motorvej ) , a section of the E20 , and to Svendborg on the southern part of Funen by way of the Svendborg Motorway ( Svendborgmotorvejen ) , which comprises the Danish route 9 .
Odense main railway station Odense station lies on the line between Copenhagen and Jutland , the peninsular mainland .
Accessibility to Odense was greatly increased when the ferry service between the two main Danish islands , Zealand and Funen , was replaced by the Great Belt Bridge -- opened in 1997 for rail traffic , 1998 for road traffic .
Odense construction greatly cut transportation time between Odense and the Danish capital , Copenhagen .
The Ogg bitstream format , spearheaded by the Xiph.Org Foundation , has been created as the framework of a larger initiative aimed at developing a set of components for the coding and decoding of multimedia content , which are available free of charge and freely re-implementable in software .
A BSD-licensed library , called libvorbis , is available to encode and decode data from Ogg streams .
This assists in resynchronizing a parser in cases where data has been lost or is corrupted , and is a sanity check before commencing parsing the page structure .
The Ogg bitstream was defined in RFC 3533 ( which is classified as ` informative ' ) and Ogg Internet content type ( application/ogg ) in RFC 3534 ( which is , , a proposed standard protocol ) .
Being called fat , or being hinted as being fat , is one of the main causes of conflicts between Asterix and Obelix which leads to more developing conflicts in which they must work together , once escalating to the point that Obelix actually gave Asterix amnesia when he hit him too hard during an argument ( Asterix and the Actress ) .
Obelix is Asterix 's closest friend ( Obelix even have the same birthday - although this is inconsistent with the comic Obelix and Co. , where only Obelix 's birthday is celebrated ) .
However , in Asterix and Cleopatra , Getafix gives him a few drops to open a door in the Great Pyramid 's Labyrinth but he comments that he does not see much difference between `` before and after the potion '' though this is presumably because Obelix is used to accomplishing any physical task with ease .
Obelix is Asterix 's closest friend ( they even have the same birthday - although this is inconsistent with the comic Obelix and Co. , where only Obelix 's birthday is celebrated ) .
Orthodox Judaism or Torah Judaism , is the approach to religious Judaism which adheres to the interpretation and application of the laws and ethics of the Torah as legislated in the Talmudic texts by the Sanhedrin ( `` Oral Torah '' ) and subsequently developed and applied by the later authorities known as the Gaonim , Rishonim , and Acharonim .
As of 2001 , Orthodox Jews and Jews affiliated with an Orthodox synagogue , accounted for approximately 50 % of Anglo Jewry ( 150,000 ) , 25 % of Israeli Jewry ( 1,500,000 ) and 13 % of American Jewry ( 529,000 ) .
Orthodox Jews believe that contemporary Orthodox Judaism maintains the same basic philosophy and legal framework that existed throughout Jewish history , whereas the other denominations depart from Orthodox Judaism .
Orthodox Judaism , as it exists today , is an outgrowth that claims to extend from the time of Moses , to the time of the Mishnah and Talmud , through the development of oral law and rabbinic literature , until the present time .
According to Rabbi Shammai Engelmayer , spiritual leader of Temple Israel Community Center in Cliffside Park and former executive editor of Jewish Week , this leaves `` Orthodox '' as `` an umbrella term that designates a very widely disparate group of people very loosely tied together by some core beliefs '' .
A number of other influential Orthodox seminaries , mostly Haredi , were established throughout the country , most notably in New York , Baltimore , Maryland ; and Chicago , Illinois .
Orthodox Judaism is composed of different groups with intertwining beliefs , practices and theologies , although in their core beliefs , all Orthodox movements share the same principles .
Orthodox Judaism holds that the words of the Torah , including both the Written Law ( Pentateuch ) and those parts of the Oral Law which are halacha leMoshe m ` Sinai , were dictated by God to Moses essentially as they exist today .
To the Orthodox Jew , halakha is a guide , God 's Law , governing the structure of daily life from the moment he or she wakes up to the moment he goes to sleep .
The words of the Torah ( Pentateuch ) were spoken to Moses by God ; the laws contained in this Written Torah , the Mitzvot , were given along with detailed explanations in the oral tradition as to how to apply and interpret them .
Oscar Peterson , ( August 15 , 1925 -- December 23 , 2007 ) was a Canadian jazz pianist and composer .
Some of the artists who influenced Peterson 's music during the earlier type of years were Teddy Wilson Nat `` King '' Cole , James P. Johnson and Art Tatum , to whom many have tried to compare Peterson in later years .
Peterson has also credited Oscar Peterson sister Daisy Sweeney -- a noted piano teacher in Montreal who also taught several other noted Canadian jazz musicians -- with being an important teacher and influence on Oscar Peterson career .
Rachmaninoff 's harmonizations , as well as direct quotations from Oscar Peterson 2nd Piano Concerto , are thrown in here and there in many recordings by Peterson , including Oscar Peterson work with the most familiar formulation of the Oscar Peterson Trio , with bassist Ray Brown and guitarist Herb Ellis .
This was more than a managerial relationship ; Peterson praised Granz for standing up for Oscar Peterson and other black jazz musicians in the segregationist south of the 1950s and 1960s .
Oscar Peterson made numerous duo performances and recordings with bassists Ray Brown , Sam Jones , Oliver Jones , and Niels-Henning Ørsted Pedersen , guitarists Joe Pass , Irving Ashby , Herb Ellis , and Barney Kessel , pianists Count Basie , Herbie Hancock , Benny Green , and Keith Emerson , trumpeters Clark Terry and Louis Armstrong , and many other important jazz players .
Kessel tired of touring after a year , and was succeeded by Herb Ellis .
Oscar Peterson at the Stratford Shakespearean Festival is widely regarded as the landmark album in Peterson 's career , and one of the most influential trios in jazz .
A quartet was a less permanent setting for Peterson , after the trio or duo , as it was hard to find equally powerful musicians available for a tightly knit arrangement with Oscar Peterson .
These solo piano sessions , made for the Musik Produktion Schwarzwald ( MPS ) label , were Peterson 's response to the emergence of such stars as Bill Evans and McCoy Tyner .
In the 1990s and 2000s Oscar Peterson recorded several albums accompanied by a combo for Telarc .
Peterson had arthritis since Oscar Peterson youth , and in later years could hardly button Oscar Peterson shirt .
Canadian politician , friend , and amateur pianist Bob Rae contends that `` a one-handed Oscar was better than just about anyone with two hands '' .
Oscar Peterson left seven children , Oscar Peterson fourth wife Kelly , and their daughter , Celine ( born 1991 ) .
While Peterson was recognized as a great jazz pianist both at home in Canada and internationally , Oscar Peterson was also regarded in Canada as a distinguished public figure .
The Nathaniel Dett Chorale , University of Toronto Gospel Choir and Sharon Riley & the Faith Chorale , under the direction of Andrew Craid along with opera soprano Measha Brueggergosman closed the show , singing an excerpt from Peterson 's `` Hymn to Freedom '' .
A movement was begun on Facebook to rename the Lionel-Groulx Metro station , a transfer station between Montreal 's Green Line and Orange Line , in honour of Oscar Peterson .
An Ontario school named Oscar Peterson Public School was opened in Stouffville in the Regional Municipality of York on 30 April 2009 , and commenced operation in the 2009-2010 school year .
At international level , the International Orienteering Federation ( IOF ) defines rules and guidelines which govern four Orienteering sports : foot orienteering , mountain bike orienteering , Orienteering , and trail orienteering .
Orienteering is based in Finland and Orienteering claims on Orienteering website to aim to `` spread the sport of orienteering , to promote Orienteering development and to create and maintain an attractive world event programme '' .
Orienteering terms vary within English speaking countries , and in other countries where English is the de facto international language of orienteering .
In Orienteering formal recommendation that ski orienteering not be included in those games , the Olympic Programme Commission focused on a lack of participation in the sport outside Nordic countries , `` the challenges for broadcasters and spectators to easily follow the competition '' , and the costs associated with new technology and a new results system .
This means there are dissipative processes such as friction or electrical resistance which continually convert some of the energy stored in Oscillation into heat in the environment .
For example , the phenomenon of flutter in aerodynamics occurs when an arbitrarily small displacement of an aircraft wing ( from Oscillation equilibrium ) results in an increase in the angle of attack of the wing on the air flow and a consequential increase in lift coefficient , leading to a still greater displacement .
Well-known is the Wilberforce pendulum , where Oscillation alternates between an elongation of a vertical spring and the rotation of an object at the end of that spring .
Such systems have ( in the classical limit ) an infinite number of normal modes and their oscillations occur in the form of waves that can characteristically propagate .
Overall , the A 's have won nine World Series championships , the third-best total in Major League Baseball ( trailing only the New York Yankees and the St. Louis Cardinals ) .
Upon moving to Oakland , the `` A '' cap emblem was restored , although in 1970 an `` apostrophe-s '' was added to the cap and uniform emblem to reflect the fact that Finley was in the process of officially changing Oakland Athletics name to the `` A 's '' .
The home cap is green with a gold bill and white lettering , while the road cap , debuting in 1994 , is all green with gold lettering .
The A 's are the only MLB team to wear white cleats , both at home and on the road , another tradition dating back to the Finley ownership .
The history of the Athletics Major League Baseball franchise spans the period from 1901 to the present day , having begun in Philadelphia before moving to Kansas City in 1955 and then to Oakland Athletics current home in Oakland , California in 1968 .
There were talks about Oakland Athletics remaining in Oakland and there are currently talks about building Oakland Athletics in San Jose .
The Bay Bridge Series is the name of a series games played between ( and the rivalry of ) the A 's and San Francisco Giants of the National League .
Although competitive , the regional rivalry between the A 's and Giants is considered a friendly one with mostly mutual companionship between the fans , as opposed to White Sox -- Cubs , or Yankees -- Mets games where animosity runs high .
Hats displaying both teams on the cap are sold from vendors at the games , and once in a while the teams both dress in uniforms from a historic era of their franchises .
Through May 30 , 2013 , the A 's have won 50 games , and the Giants have won 46 contests , and the A 's have held their head-to-head edge in this interleague matchup for the past 11 years .
The City Series was the name of a series of baseball games played between the Athletics and the Philadelphia Phillies of the National League that ran from 1903 through 1955 .
The first City Series was held in 1883 between the Phillies and the American Association Philadelphia Athletics .
No City Series was held in 1901 and 1902 due to legal warring between the National League and American League .
Though Jackson and Hunter played small portions of their careers in Kansas City , no player that played the majority of his years in the Kansas City era has his number retired either .
Fosse also provides radio color commentary when Hatteberg is on TV or when the A 's are televised nationally on Fox or ESPN .
Organometallic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds containing bonds between carbon and Organometallic chemistry .
Furthermore , many lipophilic compounds such as metal acetylacetonates and metal alkoxides are called `` metalorganics '' .
The metal-carbon bond in organometallic compounds is generally of character intermediate between ionic and covalent .
On the other hand , the ionic character of metal-carbon bonds in the organometallic compounds of transition metals , poor metals , and metalloids tends to be intermediate , owing to the middle-of-the-road electronegativity of such metals .
Organometallic chemistry undergo several important reactions : Early developments in organometallic chemistry include Louis Claude Cadet 's synthesis of methyl arsenic compounds related to cacodyl , William Christopher Zeise 's platinum-ethylene complex , Edward Frankland 's discovery of dimethyl zinc , Ludwig Mond 's discovery of Ni ( CO ) 4 , and Victor Grignard 's organomagnesium compounds .
Recognition of organometallic chemistry as a distinct subfield culminated in the Nobel Prizes to Ernst Fischer and Geoffrey Wilkinson for work on metallocenes .
Organometallic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds containing bonds between carbon and a metal .
Advocates are often normal users who devote Operating system advocacy spare time to advocacy of Operating system advocacy operating system of choice ; many have a deep and abiding interest in the use , design and construction of operating systems and an emotional investment in Operating system advocacy favourite operating system .
Operating system advocacy discussions , on Usenet and elsewhere , have spawned a variety of jargon describing commonly seen behaviour , including `` MicroDroid '' and `` Amiga Persecution Complex '' .
From the 1984 Super Bowl advertisement and `` Test Drive a Macintosh '' to the Apple Switch and Get a Mac advertising campaigns , Apple Computer has a long history of advocating Operating system advocacy platform through innovative techniques in traditional media .
Additionally , many users feared that IBM , who had proven eminently capable of developing a superior PC operating system , knew very little about consumer marketing in the high-tech marketplace or establishing even a superior product as a standard in the cut-throat , get-there-first-at-any-cost arena dominated by Microsoft .
For animal sounds , words like quack ( duck ) , moo ( cow ) , bark or woof ( dog ) , roar ( lion ) , meow/miaow or purr ( cat ) , cluck ) ( chicken ) and baa ( sheep ) are typically used in English .
An example of the opposite case is `` cuckoo '' , which , due to continuous familiarity with the bird noise down the centuries , has kept approximately the same pronunciation as in Anglo-Saxon times and Onomatopoeia vowels have not changed as Onomatopoeia have in the word `` furrow '' .
Similarly , the `` honk '' of a car 's horn is ba-ba in Chinese , tut-tut in French , pu-pu in Japanese , bbang-bbang in Korean , baert-baert in Norwegian and bim-bim in Vietnamese .
Similarly , alliteration has been used in the line `` as the surf surged up the sun swept shore ... '' , to recreate the sound of breaking waves , in the poem `` I , She and the Sea '' In the poem Kalahandi by Dr Tapan Kumar Pradhan , the rhythm of the word string `` smell of hooch , of sweat , of flesh , the man 's ... '' evokes the sounds produced during an act of aggressive sexual intercourse without the use of onomatopoeia or alliteration .
Odysseus , also known by the Roman name Ulysses , was a legendary Greek king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey .
In the Iliad and Odyssey there are several epithets used to describe Odysseus .
Homer 's Iliad and Odyssey portrayed Odysseus as a culture hero , but the Romans , who believed themselves the heirs of Prince Aeneas of Troy , considered him a villainous falsifier .
While the Greeks admired his cunning and deceit , these qualities did not recommend themselves to the Romans who possessed a rigid sense of honour .
By most accounts , Thetis , Achilles 's mother , disguised the youth as a woman to hide him from the recruiters because an oracle had predicted that Achilles would either live a long , uneventful life or achieve everlasting glory while dying young .
And the two are not only foils in the abstract but often opposed in practice ; Odysseus have many duels and run-ins ( for examples see the next section ) .
Odysseus and Diomedes ( or , according to some accounts , Odysseus and Neoptolemus ) went out to retrieve them .
Odysseus and Diomedes would later steal the Palladium that lay within Troy 's walls , for the Greeks were told Odysseus could not sack the city without Odysseus .
Odysseus skirted the land of the Sirens , passed between the six-headed monster Scylla and the whirlpool Charybdis , where Odysseus rowed directly between the two .
As Odysseus , he is mentioned regularly in Virgil 's Aeneid , and the poem 's hero , Aeneas , rescues one of Odysseus crew members who was left behind on the island of the Cyclops .
Ovid also gives a detailed account of the contest between Odysseus and Ajax for the armor of Achilles .
Dante , in Canto 26 of the Inferno of his Divine Comedy , encounters Odysseus ( `` Ulisse '' in the original Italian ) near the very bottom of Hell : with Diomedes , he walks wrapped in flame in the eighth ring ( Counselors of Fraud ) of the Eighth Circle ( Sins of Malice ) , as punishment for his schemes and conspiracies that won the Trojan War .
After travelling west and south for five months , they saw in the distance a great mountain rising from the sea ( this is Purgatory , in Dante 's cosmology ) before a storm sank them .
In S.M. Stirling 's Island in the Sea of Time trilogy , Odikweos ( Mycenean spelling ) is a ` historical ' figure who is every bit as cunning as his legendary self and is one of the few Bronze Age inhabitants who discerns the time-traveller 's real background .
Between 1978 and 1979 , German director Tony Munzlinger made a documentary series called Unterwegs mit Odysseus ( roughly translated : `` Journeying with Odysseus '' ) , in which a film team sails across the Mediterranean Sea trying to find traces of Odysseus in the modern-day settings of the Odyssey .
One of the episodes , `` The Odie-sey '' , portrays the story of the Odyssey , with characters like Calypso , Scylla , and Aeolus , and also including modern twists .
Tony Robinson 's 1996 UK children 's television series Odysseus : The Greatest Hero of Them All ( sometimes listed as an episode in the Jackanory serial ) , comprised Robinson narrating the Iliad and Odyssey , with most of the events maintained intact , but retold in modern language .
The Ostrich or Common Ostrich ( Ostrich ) is either one or two species of large flightless birds native to Africa , the only living member ( s ) of Ostrich Struthio , which is in the ratite family .
Ostrich usually weigh from 63 to 145 , Ostrich of the East African race ( S. c. massaicus ) averaged 115 kg in males and 100 kg in females , while the nominate subspecies was found to average 111 kg in unsexed adults .
Hybridization with the subspecies that evolved southwestwards of Ostrich range , S. c. massaicus , has apparently been prevented from occurring on a significant scale by ecological separation , the Somali Ostrich preferring bushland where Ostrich browses middle-height vegetation for food while the Masai Ostrich is , like the other subspecies , a grazing bird of the open savanna and miombo habitat .
Several of these fossil forms are ichnotaxa ( that is , classified according to the organism 's footprints or other trace rather than Ostrich body ) and Ostrich association with those described from distinctive bones is contentious and in need of revision pending more good material .
This myth likely began with Pliny the Elder ( AD 23 -- 79 ) , who wrote that Ostrich `` imagine , when they have thrust their head and neck into a bush , that the whole of their body is concealed '' .
Of Ostrich 5 subspecies , the Middle Eastern Ostrich ( S. c. syriacus ) became extinct around 1966 , and the North African Ostrich ( S. c. camelus ) has declined to the point where Ostrich now is included on CITES Appendix I and some treat Ostrich as Critically Endangered .
Ostrich meat tastes similar to lean beef and is low in fat and cholesterol , as well as high in calcium , protein and iron .
In one study of Ostrich attacks , it was estimated that two to three attacks that result in serious injury or death occur each year in the area of Oudtshoorn , South Africa , where a large number of ostrich farms abut against both feral and wild Ostrich populations .
Ostrich is either one or two species of large flightless birds native to Africa , the only living member ( s ) of the genus Struthio , which is in the ratite family .
The period after orgasm ( known as a refractory period ) is often a relaxing experience , attributed to the release of the neurohormones oxytocin and prolactin , as well as endorphins ( or `` endogenous morphine '' ) .
Scientific literature focuses on the psychology of female orgasm significantly more than Orgasm does on the psychology of male orgasm , which `` appears to reflect the assumption that female orgasm is psychologically more complex than male orgasm , '' but `` the limited empirical evidence available suggests that male and female orgasm may bear more similarities than differences .
Masters and Johnson argued that , in the first stage , `` accessory organs contract and the male can feel the ejaculation coming ; two to three seconds later the ejaculation occurs , which the man can not constrain , delay , or in any way control '' and that , in the second stage , `` the male feels pleasurable contractions during ejaculation , reporting greater pleasure tied to a greater volume of ejaculate '' .
One technique for refraining from ejaculation is to put pressure on the perineum , about halfway between the scrotum and the anus , just before ejaculating to prevent ejaculation .
Sex educator Rebecca Chalker states that only one part of the clitoris , the urethral sponge , is in contact with the penis , fingers , or a dildo in the vagina .
Many women felt inadequate when Orgasm could not achieve orgasm via vaginal intercourse alone , involving little or no clitoral stimulation , as Freud 's theory made penile-vaginal intercourse the central component to women 's sexual satisfaction .
Alfred Kinsey was the first researcher to harshly criticize Freud 's ideas about female sexuality and orgasm when , through his interviews with thousands of women , Kinsey found that most of the women he surveyed could not have vaginal orgasms .
He `` criticized Freud and other theorists for projecting male constructs of sexuality onto women '' and `` viewed the clitoris as the main center of sexual response '' and the vagina as `` relatively unimportant '' for sexual satisfaction , relaying that `` few women inserted fingers or objects into their vaginas when they masturbated '' .
Accounts that the vagina is capable of producing Orgasm continue to be subject to debate because , in addition to the vagina 's low concentration of nerve endings , the G-Spot 's location is inconsistent and appears to be nonexistent in some women , and may be an extension of another structure ( such as the Skene 's gland or the clitoris , which is a part of the Skene 's gland ) .
In addition to observing that the majority of their female subjects could only have clitoral orgasms , Orgasm found that both clitoral and vaginal orgasms had the same stages of physical response .
Having used MRI technology which enabled her to note a direct relationship between the legs or roots of the clitoris and the erectile tissue of the `` clitoral bulbs '' and corpora , and the distal urethra and vagina , she stated that the vaginal wall is the clitoris ; that lifting the skin off the vagina on the side walls reveals the bulbs of the clitoris -- triangular , crescental masses of erectile tissue .
O'Connell et al. , who performed dissections on the female genitals of cadavers and used photography to map the structure of nerves in the clitoris , were already aware that the clitoris is more than just Orgasm glans and asserted in 1998 that there is more erectile tissue associated with the clitoris than is generally described in anatomical textbooks .
`` The female perineal urethra , which is located in front of the anterior vaginal wall , is about one centimeter in length and the G-Spot is located in the pelvic wall of the urethra , 2 -- 3 cm into the vagina , '' Puppo stated .
Supporting a distinct G-Spot is a study by Rutgers University , published 2011 , which was the first to map the female genitals onto the sensory portion of the brain ; brain scans showed that the brain registered distinct feelings between stimulating the clitoris , the cervix and the vaginal wall -- where the G-Spot is reported to be -- when several women stimulated themselves in a functional magnetic resonance ( fMRI ) machine .
Commenting on Komisaruk 's research and other findings , Emmanuele Jannini , a professor of endocrinology at the University of Aquila in Italy , acknowledged a series of essays published in March 2012 in The Journal of Sexual Medicine , which document evidence that vaginal and clitoral orgasms are separate phenomena that activate different areas of the brain and possibly suggest key psychological differences between women .
Scholars state `` many couples are locked into the idea that Orgasm should be achieved only through intercourse vaginal sex '' and that `` even the word foreplay suggests that any other form of sexual stimulation is merely preparation for the ` main event ' .
In the first large-scale empirical study worldwide to link specific practices with orgasm , reported in the Journal of Sex Research in 2006 , demographic and sexual history variables were comparatively weakly associated with orgasm .
Practices included `` vaginal intercourse alone ( 12 % ) , vaginal + manual stimulation of the man 's and/or woman 's genitals ( 49 % ) , and vaginal intercourse + manual + oral ( 32 % ) '' and the `` encounters may also have included other practices .
An empirical study carried out in 2008 provides evidence for Freud 's implied link between inability to have Orgasm and psychosexual immaturity .
Direct stimulation of the clitoris , G-Spot , or both , during anal sex can help some women to enjoy the experience and reach orgasm .
In some women , stimulation of the breast area during sexual intercourse or foreplay , or just the simple act of having their breasts fondled , creates mild to intense Orgasm , sometimes referred to as a `` breast '' or `` nipple orgasm '' .
In the late 1980s and after , Rosemary Basson proposed a more cyclical alternative to what had largely been viewed as linear progression .
Except for in cases of a dry orgasm , contraction of the sphincter and prostate force stored semen to be expelled through the penis 's urethral opening .
A woman experiences full orgasm when her uterus , vagina , anus , and pelvic muscles undergo a series of rhythmic contractions .
There have been very few studies correlating orgasm and brain activity in real time , owing to cultural barriers and technical difficulties .
However , the same changes in brain activity were observed in both sexes in which the brain regions associated with behavioral control , fear and anxiety shut down .
However , a subsequent report by Rudie Kortekaas , et al. stated , `` Gender commonalities were most evident during orgasm ... From these results , we conclude that during the sexual act , differential brain responses across genders are principally related to the stimulatory ( plateau ) phase and not to the orgasmic phase Orgasm '' .
Male and female brains demonstrate similar changes during orgasm , with brain activity scans showing a temporary decrease in the metabolic activity of large parts of the cerebral cortex with normal or increased metabolic activity in the limbic areas of the brain .
Other studies , beginning with those by Candace Pert , have documented the connection between orgasm and endorphins ; although ongoing physical contact , and not just sex alone , also helps produce endorphins along with oxytocin .
Partial correlations and analyses of covariance controlling for social desirability responding were used to examine the associations of sexual activities with time and frequency domains of resting heart rate variability .
A 1994 study by Laumann et al. found that 75 % of men and 29 % of women always have orgasms with their partner .
Women are much more likely to be nearly always or always Orgasm when alone than with a partner .
Like Kinsey , scholars such as Peplau , Fingerhut and Beals ( 2004 ) and Diamond ( 2006 ) found that lesbians have Orgasm more often and more easily in sexual interactions than heterosexual women do , and that female partners are more likely to emphasize the emotional aspects of lovemaking .
In contrast , research by Diane Holmberg and Karen L. Blair ( 2009 ) , published in the Journal of Sex Research , found that women in same-sex relationships enjoyed identical sexual desire , sexual communication , sexual satisfaction , and satisfaction with orgasm as their heterosexual counterparts .
Psychoanalyst Wilhelm Reich , in his 1927 book Die Funktion des Orgasmus ( published in English in 1980 as Genitality in the Theory and Therapy of Neurosis ) was the first to make orgasm central to the concept of mental health , and defined neurosis in terms of blocks to having orgastic potency .
While researchers such as Geoffrey Miller , Helen Fisher , Meredith Small and Sarah Blaffer Hrdy `` have viewed Orgasm as a legitimate adaptation in its own right , with major implications for female sexual behavior and sexual evolution , '' others , such as Donald Symons and Stephen Jay Gould , have asserted that the clitoris is vestigial or nonadaptive , and that Orgasm serves no particular evolutionary function .
However , Gould acknowledged that `` most female orgasms emanate from a clitoral , rather than vaginal ( or some other ) , site '' and stated that his nonadaptive belief `` has been widely misunderstood as a denial of either the adaptive value of female orgasm in general , or even as a claim that female orgasms lack significance in some broader sense '' .
O'Connell said , `` It boils down to rivalry between the sexes : the idea that one sex is sexual and the other reproductive .
O'Connell used MRI technology to define the true size and shape of the clitoris , suggesting that it extends into the anterior wall of the vagina ( see above ) .
Advocates of tantric and neotantric sex who claim that Western culture focuses too much on the goal of climactic orgasm , which reduces the ability to have intense pleasure during other moments of the sexual experience , suggest that eliminating this enables a richer , fuller and more intense connection .
Oaths of Strasbourg are several historical documents which include mutual pledges of allegiance between Louis the German ( d. 876 ) , ruler of East Francia , and his ( half - ) brother Charles the Bald ( d. 877 ) , ruler of West Francia .
Oaths of Strasbourg is several historical documents which include mutual pledges of allegiance between Louis the German ( d. 876 ) , ruler of East Francia , and his ( half - ) brother Charles the Bald ( d. 877 ) , ruler of West Francia .
`` Cædmon 's Hymn '' , composed in the 7th century according to Bede , is often considered the oldest extant poem in English , whereas the later poem , The Grave is one of the final poems written in Old English , and presents a transitional text between Old and Middle English .
Paul G. Remely has recently proposed that the Old English Exodus may have been the work of Aldhelm , or someone closely associated with him .
The longest ( 3,182 lines ) , and most important , is Beowulf , which appears in the damaged Nowell Codex .
Although the Exeter Book has a unique and extensive collection of Anglo-Saxon riddles , riddles were not uncommon during this era .
The first and longest is of Genesis , the second is of Exodus and the third is Daniel .
The longest is Christ and Satan in the Junius manuscript , Old English literature deals with the conflict between Christ and Satan during the forty days in the desert .
Another debate poem is Solomon and Saturn , surviving in a number of textual fragments , Saturn is portrayed as a magician debating with the wise king Solomon .
Other similar short verses , or charms , include For a Swarm of Bees , Against a Dwarf , Wið færstice , and Against a Wen .
As an example of this , the epic Beowulf contains at best five similes , and these are of the short variety .
This can be contrasted sharply with the strong and extensive dependence that Anglo-Saxon poetry has upon metaphor , particularly that afforded by the use of kennings .
Old English poetry , like other Old Germanic alliterative verse , is also commonly marked by the caesura or pause .
Old English prose first appears in the 9th century , and continues to be recorded through the 12th century as the last generation of scribes , trained as boys in the standardised West Saxon before the Conquest , died as old men .
Ælfric of Eynsham , wrote in the late 10th and early 11th century .
He also wrote a grammar and glossary in Old English called Latin , later used by students interested in learning Old French because Old English literature had been glossed in Old French .
Because this is the same manuscript that contains Beowulf , some scholars speculate Old English literature may have been a collection of materials on exotic places and creatures .
A second collection of texts is Bald 's Leechbook , a 10th-century book containing herbal and even some surgical cures .
A third collection , known as the Lacnunga , includes many charms and incantations .
The Magnavox Odyssey ² , known in Europe as the Philips Videopac G7000 , in Brazil as the Philips Odyssey , in the United States as the Magnavox Odyssey ² and the Philips Odyssey ² , and also by many other names , is a video game console released in 1978 .
The Odyssey ² used the standard joystick design of the 1970s and early 1980s : the original console had a moderately-sized silver controller , held in one hand , with a square housing for Magnavox Odyssey² eight-direction stick that was manipulated with the other hand .
Magnavox Odyssey² could be plugged and unplugged from the back of the unit , while all later silver and all black controllers were hardwired into the rear of the unit Magnavox Odyssey² ( although the joysticks still can be easily replaced , but not without dismounting the cover deck ) .
The area that the Odyssey ² may be best remembered for was Magnavox Odyssey² pioneering fusion of board and video games : The Master Strategy Series .
Of these systems , the Odyssey ² was listed by Jeff Rovin as being the third in total of sales , and one of the seven major video game suppliers .
Videopac game cartridges are mostly compatible with American Odyssey ² units , although some games have color differences and a few are completely incompatible .
Obadiah ( pronounced , ʿObhadyah or עבדיהו ` oḆaDYaHOo , or in Modern Hebrew Ovadyah ) is a Biblical theophorical name , meaning `` servant of Yahweh '' or `` worshipper of Yahweh '' .
Apostolic succession `` may also be understood as a continuity in doctrinal teaching from the time of the apostles to the present '' He adds that this last has been controversial in that Apostolic succession has been claimed that this aspect of the doctrine is not found before the time of Augustine of Hippo , while others allege that Apostolic succession is implicit in the Church of the second and third centuries .
In Apostolic succession 1982 statement on Baptism , Eucharist and Ministry , the Faith and Order Commission of the World Council of Churches stated that `` the primary manifestation of apostolic succession is to be found in the apostolic tradition of the Church as a whole ...
Apostolic succession spoke of episcopal succession as something that churches that do not have bishops can see `` as a sign , though not a guarantee , of the continuity and unity of the Church '' and that all churches can see `` as a sign of the apostolicity of the life of the whole church '' .
and Apostolic succession produced succession lists to back this up .
Those who hold for the importance of episcopal apostolic succession appeal to the New Testament , which , Apostolic succession say , implies a personal apostolic succession ( from Paul to Timothy and Titus , for example ) .
Further , proponents of the necessity of Apostolic succession , before being divided into the Church of the East , Oriental Orthodoxy , the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church.Bishops have succeeded the apostles , not only because they come after them , but also because they have inherited apostolic power .
Most Protestants deny the need for this type of continuity and the historical claims involved have been severely questioned ; Eric Jay comments that the account given of the emergence of the episcopate in chapter III of Lumen Gentium `` is very sketchy , and many ambiguities in the early history of the Christian ministry are passed over '' Their reasons are given in detail below .
The 1937 British Methodist Conference located the `` true continuity '' with the Church of past ages in `` the continuity of Christian experience , the fellowship in the gift of the one Spirit ; in the continuity in the allegiance to one Lord , the continued proclamation of the message ; the continued acceptance of the mission ; ... '' through a long chain which goes back to the `` the first disciples in the company of the Lord Himself ... This is our doctrine of apostolic succession '' which neither depends on , nor is secured by , `` an official succession of ministers , whether bishops or presbyters , from apostolic times , but rather by fidelity to apostolic truth '' .
Furthermore , Apostolic succession is not clearly found in the writings of the Fathers before Augustine in the fourth century and attempts to read Apostolic succession back as implicit in earlier writers are flawed because it is possible to show that significant changes occurred .
However , in Clement of Rome ministerial activity is liturgical : the undifferentiated ` presbyter-bishops ' are to `` make offerings to the Lord at the right time and in the right places '' something which is simply not defined by the evangelists .
Churches that claim some form of episcopal apostolic succession , dating back to the apostles or to leaders from the apostolic era , include the Catholic Church , the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox Churches , the Church of the East , the Anglican Communion , the Liberal Catholic Church and some Lutheran Churches ( see below ) .
The Patriarchate of Alexandria ( Greek Orthodox Church of Alexandria and Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria ) claims to have been founded by Saint Mark .
The Patriarchate of Antioch ( Greek Orthodox Church of Antioch , Syriac Orthodox Church , Syriac Catholic Church , Maronite Patriarch of Antioch and the Whole Levant ) claims unbroken succession to the Throne of Saint Peter .
The Armenian Apostolic Church , based at Etchmiadzin , claims to have been founded by Saints Bartholomew and Jude .
The Orthodox Church of Cyprus , based at New Justiana ( Erdek ) , claims to have been founded by the apostles Saints Paul and Barnabas The Russian Orthodox Church claims a connection with Saint Andrew , who is said to have visited the area where the city of Kiev later arose .
This was achieved through several different means : ordinations by the schismatic Catholic bishops of the Old Catholic and Independent Catholic Churches who converted to Anglicanism .
Of course , from a Catholic point of view , the bishops in communion with the Pope ( the Church 's Magisterium ) have the final say in the matter , as Apostolic succession , not theologians , are the successors of the Apostles and have doctrinal authority .
Orthodox Christians view apostolic succession as an important , God-ordained mechanism by which the structure and teaching of the Church are perpetuated .
While Eastern Orthodox sources often refer to the bishops as `` successors of the apostles '' under the influence of Scholastic theology , strict Orthodox ecclesiology and theology hold that all legitimate bishops are properly successors of Peter .
He goes on to explain that Apostolic succession ascribed to early Anglican authors a far more exclusive version of the doctrine than was the case , Apostolic succession blurred the distinction between succession in office ( Irenaeus ) and succession in consecration ( Augustine ) ; Apostolic succession spoke of apostolic succession as the channel of grace in a way that failed to do justice to His gracious activity within all the dispensations of the New Covenant .
( p. 111 ) Newman , and after him , Charles Gore held that the episcopate was passed down from the apostles through men like Timothy and Titus to single bishops in particular localities ( monarchial episcopacy ) .
A reply from the Archbishops of Canterbury and York ( 1896 ) was issued to counter Pope Leo 's arguments : Saepius Officio : Answer of the Archbishops of Canterbury and York to the Bull Apostolicae Curae of H. H. Leo XIII .
In particular and probably rare cases the authorities in Rome may judge that there is a ` prudent doubt ' concerning the invalidity of priestly ordination received by an individual Anglican minister ordained in this line of Apostolic succession .
Of note is the fact that at least one of the Scandinavian Lutheran Churches in the Porvoo Communion of Churches , the Church of Denmark has bishops , but strictly speaking Apostolic succession were not in the historic apostolic succession prior to their entry into the Porvoo Communion , since their Episcopate and Holy Orders derived from Dr. Johannes Bugenhagen , who was a pastor , not a bishop .
In Scandinavia , most Lutheran churches participating in the Porvoo Communion , those of Iceland , Norway , Sweden , Finland , Estonia , and Lithuania , believe that they ordain their bishops in Apostolic succession .
Similarly , in the High Church Lutheranism of Germany , some religious brotherhoods like Hochkirchliche St. Johannes-Bruderschaft and Hochkirchlicher Apostolat St. Ansgar have managed to arrange for their own bishop to be re-ordained in apostolic succession .
By this document the full communion between the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and the Episcopal Church was established .
This is because Rev. John Wesley believed that bishops and presbyters constituted one order , citing an ancient opinion from the Church of Alexandria .
Since the Bishop of London refused to ordain ministers in the British American colonies , this constituted an emergency , and as a result , on 2 September 1784 , Rev. John Wesley , along with a priest from the Anglican Church and two other elders , operating under the ancient Alexandrian habitude , ordained Rev. Thomas Coke a superintendent , although Rt.
Today , the Methodist Church follows this ancient Alexandrian practice as bishops are elected from and by the order of the presbyterate : the Discipline of the Methodist Church , in ¶ 303 , affirms that `` ordination to this ministry is a gift from God to the Church .
Apostolic succession both said that the episcopacy was inadequate to address corruption , doctrinal or otherwise , and that this inadequacy justified the intervention of the church of common people .
In the 20th century , there has been more contact between Protestants and Christians from Eastern traditions which claim apostolic succession for their ministry .
As Apostolic succession relates to apostolic succession , the apostles Peter , James , and John allegedly appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery sometime in 1829 and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood and with it `` the keys of the kingdom , and of the dispensation of the fulness of times '' .
This is composed of one year in general surgical training and four years in otolaryngology -- head and neck surgery ; in the past Otolaryngology varied between two and three years of each .
Otterlo ( municipality of Ede ) is a small village in the province of Gelderland in the Netherlands , in or near the Nationaal Park De Hoge Veluwe .
Olympic Games ( , JO ) are the leading international sporting event featuring summer and winter sports competitions in which thousands of athletes participate in a variety of competitions .
Olympic Games are held every four years , with the Summer and Winter Games alternating , meaning they each occur every four years but two years apart .
The Olympic Movement consists of international sports federations ( IFs ) , National Olympic Committees ( NOCs ) , and organizing committees for each specific Olympic Games .
The Games were held every four years , and this period , known as an Olympiad , was used by Greeks as one of their units of time measurement .
Olympic Games was first organized by the lawyer Robert Dover between 1612 and 1642 , with several later celebrations leading up to the present day .
Between 1862 and 1867 , Liverpool held an annual Grand Olympic Festival .
Figure skating ( in 1908 and 1920 ) and ice hockey ( in 1920 ) were featured as Olympic events at the Summer Olympic Games .
In 2010 , Olympic Games were complemented by the Youth Games , which give athletes between the ages of 14 and 18 the chance to compete .
Examples of this include territories such as Puerto Rico , Bermuda , and Hong Kong , all of which compete as separate nations despite being legally a part of another country .
Therefore , Olympic Games did not allow the formation of National Olympic Committees for Sint Maarten and Curaçao when Olympic Games gained the same constitutional status as Aruba in 2010 , although the IOC had recognized the Aruban Olympic Committee in 1986 .
The Games have also had significant negative effects on host communities ; for example , the Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions reports that Olympic Games displaced more than two million people over two decades , often disproportionately affecting disadvantaged groups .
The Olympic Movement encompasses a large number of national and international sporting organizations and federations , recognized media partners , as well as athletes , officials , judges , and every other person and institution that agrees to abide by the rules of the Olympic Charter .
As the umbrella organization of the Olympic Movement , the International Olympic Committee ( IOC ) is responsible for selecting the host city , overseeing the planning of Olympic Games , updating and approving the sports program , and negotiating sponsorship and broadcasting rights .
In July 2012 , The Anti-Defamation League ( ADL ) called the continued refusal by the International Olympic Committee to hold a moment of silence at Olympic Games for the eleven Israeli athletes killed by Palestinian terrorists at the 1972 Munich Olympic Games , `` a continuing stubborn insensitivity and callousness to the memory of the murdered Israeli athletes '' .
The 1956 Winter Olympics were the first internationally televised Olympic Games , and the following Winter Games had their broadcasting rights sold for the first time to specialized television broadcasting networks -- CBS paid US$ 394,000 for the American rights , and the European Broadcasting Union ( EBU ) allocated US$ 660,000 .
This was attributed to two factors : one was the increased competition from cable channels , the second was the internet , which was able to display results and video in real time .
The colored version of the rings -- blue , yellow , black , green , and red -- over a white field forms the Olympic flag .
The Olympic mascot , an animal or human figure representing the cultural heritage of the host country , was introduced in 1968 .
The artistic presentations have grown in scale and complexity as successive hosts attempt to provide a ceremony that outlasts Olympic Games predecessor 's in terms of memorability .
The 114th IOC Session , in 2002 , limited the Summer Games program to a maximum of 28 sports , 301 events , and 10,500 athletes .
The 1912 Olympic pentathlon and decathlon champion Jim Thorpe was stripped of his medals when it was discovered that he had played semi-professional baseball before Olympic Games .
As of 2004 , the only sports in which no professionals compete are boxing and wrestling , although even this requires a definition of amateurism based on fight rules rather than on payment , as some boxers and wrestlers receive cash prizes from their National Olympic Committees .
Nazi Germany wished to portray the National Socialist Party as benevolent and peace-loving when Olympic Games hosted the 1936 Games , though Olympic Games used the Games to display Aryan superiority .
Olympic Games was not until the 1956 Summer Games that the Soviets emerged as a sporting superpower and , in doing so , took full advantage of the publicity that came with winning at the Olympics .
At the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City , two American track and field athletes , Tommie Smith and John Carlos , who finished first and third in the 200 meters , performed the Black Power salute on the victory stand .
The second place finisher , Peter Norman of Australia , wore an Olympic Project for human rights badge in support of Smith and Carlos .
Shortly thereafter , the Qatar Olympic Committee announced that it `` hoped to send up to four female athletes in shooting and fencing '' to the 2012 Summer Games in London .
At the 2012 Olympic Games in London , England , for the first time in Olympic Games , every country competing included female athletes Saudi Arabia included two female athletes in its delegation ; Qatar , four ; and Brunei , one ( Maziah Mahusin , in the 400m hurdles ) .
The South Ossetia War between Georgia and Russia erupted on the opening day of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing .
In what became a much-publicized event from the Beijing Games , Salukvadze and Paderina embraced on the podium after the ceremony had ended .
This usually happens either because people are drawn to sponsorships and training facilities in places like the United States or because an athlete does not qualify in their original country .
This is usually because there are many qualified athletes in an athlete 's home country and Olympic Games want to be able to participate as well as help the team of Olympic Games new country .
Between 1992 and 2008 , there were about fifty athletes that have emigrated to the United States to compete on the US Olympic team after having previously competed for another nation .
From 1948 onward athletes placing fourth , fifth , and sixth have received certificates , which became officially known as victory diplomas ; in 1984 victory diplomas for seventh - and eighth-place finishers were added .
Once elected , the host city bid committee ( together with the NOC of the respective country ) signs a Host City Contract with the IOC , officially becoming an Olympic host nation and host city .
The OSGi Alliance ( formerly known as the Open Services Gateway initiative , now an obsolete name ) is an open standards organization founded in March 1999 that originally specified and continues to maintain the OSGi standard .
The OSGi Alliance was founded by Ericsson , IBM , Motorola , Sun Microsystems and others in March 1999 ( before incorporating as a nonprofit corporation OSGi was called the Connected Alliance ) .
Estrogen or Oestrogens ( spellings in American English and British English usage respectively ) , are a group of compounds named for their importance in both menstrual and estrous reproductive cycles .
Once inside the cell , Estrogen bind to and activate estrogen receptors which in turn modulate the expression of many genes .
Thus , estradiol is the most important estrogen in non-pregnant females who are between the menarche and menopause stages of life .
Premarin , a commonly prescribed Estrogen drug produced from the urine of pregnant mares , contains the steroidal Estrogen equilin and equilenin .
Estrogen , in females , are produced primarily by the ovaries , and during pregnancy , the placenta .
Follicle-stimulating hormone ( FSH ) stimulates the ovarian production of Estrogen by the granulosa cells of the ovarian follicles and corpora lutea .
Estrogen also helps in maintaining the delicate balance between fighting infections and protecting arteries from damage thus lowering the risk of cardiovascular disease .
The WHI studies used one type of estrogen supplement , a high oral dose of conjugated equine estrogens ( Premarin alone and with medroxyprogesterone acetate as PremPro ) .
This technique , in the context of treatment of breast cancer , is known variously as hormonal therapy , hormone therapy , or anti-estrogen therapy ( not to be confused with hormone replacement therapy ) .
The estrogen-alone substudy of the WHI reported an increased risk of stroke and deep vein thrombosis ( DVT ) in postmenopausal women 50 years of age or older and an increased risk of dementia in postmenopausal women 65 years of age or older using 0.625 mg of Premarin conjugated equine estrogens ( CEE ) .
The `` first orally effective estrogen '' , Emmenin , derived from the late-pregnancy urine of Canadian women , was introduced in 1930 by Collip and Ayerst Laboratories .
Roland Octapad was a very important device at that time , allowing drummers and percussionists the opportunity to trigger virtually any MIDI sound source without the need of a full electronic drum set .
Oswald Spengler ( 29 May 1880 -- 8 May 1936 ) was a German historian and philosopher of history whose interests included mathematics , science , and art .
Oswald Spengler was born in 1880 in Blankenburg ( in the Duchy of Brunswick , German Empire ) the eldest of four children , and the only boy .
The perceived national humiliation of the Treaty of Versailles ( 1919 ) and later the economic depression around 1923 fueled by hyperinflation seemed to prove Oswald Spengler right .
The review recommended the book for `` readers who enjoy vigorous writing '' , who `` will be glad to be rubbed the wrong way by Spengler 's harsh aphorisms '' and Oswald Spengler pessimistic predictions .
Oswald Spengler made occasional trips to the Harz mountains , and to Italy .
Oswald Spengler died of a heart attack on May 8 , 1936 in Munich , three weeks before Oswald Spengler 56th birthday and exactly nine years before the fall of the Third Reich .
In extended use , oracle may also refer to the site of Oracle , and to the Oracle utterances themselves , called khrēsmoi in Greek .
Walter Burkert observes that `` Frenzied women from whose lips the god speaks '' are recorded in the Near East as in Mari in the second millennium BC and in Assyria in the first millennium BC .
In Egypt the goddess Wadjet ( eye of the moon ) was depicted as a snake-headed woman or a woman with two snake-heads .
Any inconsistencies between prophecies and events were dismissed as failure to correctly interpret the responses , not an error of Oracle .
The shrine of Dodona was the oldest Hellenic oracle , according to the fifth-century historian Herodotus and in fact , dates to pre-Hellenic times , perhaps as early as the second millennium BC when the tradition probably spread from Egypt .
The I Ching , or `` Book of Changes '' , is a collection of linear signs used as oracles that are from that period .
In Igbo villages , Oracle were usually female priestesses to a particular deity , usually dwelling in a cave or other secluded location away from urban areas , and , much as the oracles of ancient Greece , would deliver prophecies in an ecstatic state to visitors seeking advice .
The interrelationship between Oracle 10g and Java allows developers to set up stored procedures written in the Java language , as well as those written in the traditional Oracle database programming language , PL/SQL .
Pope ( from ; from pappas , a child 's word for father ) is the Bishop of Rome and the leader of the worldwide Catholic Church .
His ecclesiastical jurisdiction is often called the `` Holy See '' ( Sancta Sedes in Latin ) , or the `` Apostolic See '' based upon the Church tradition that the Apostles Saint Peter and Saint Paul were martyred in Rome .
Catholics recognize the pope as a successor to Saint Peter , whom , according to Roman Catholic teaching , Jesus named as the `` shepherd '' and `` rock '' of the Catholic Church , which according to Catholic dogma is the one true Church founded by Christ .
The Catholic Church teaches that Jesus personally appointed Peter as leader of the Church and in its dogmatic constitution Lumen Gentium makes a clear distinction between apostles and bishops , presenting the latter as the successors of the former , with the pope as successor of Peter in that he is head of the bishops as Peter was head of the apostles .
Clement of Rome wrote in a letter to the Corinthians , c. 96 , about the persecution of Christians in Rome as the `` struggles in our time '' and presented to the Corinthians its heroes , `` first , the greatest and most just columns '' , the `` good apostles '' Peter and Paul .
Given this and other evidence , many scholars agree that Peter was martyred in Rome under Nero , although some scholars argue that he may have been martyred in Palestine .
While the civil power in the East controlled the church and the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople , the capital , wielded much power , in the West , Pope were able to consolidate the influence and power they already possessed .
After the fall of the Western Roman Empire , barbarian tribes were converted to Arian Christianity or Catholicism ; Clovis I , king of the Franks , was the first important barbarian ruler to convert to Catholicism rather than Arianism , allying himself with Pope .
To combat this and other practices that had corrupted the Church between the years 900 and 1050 , centres emerged promoting ecclesiastical reform , the most important being the Cluny Abbey , which spread Pope ideals throughout Europe .
The concept that a monetary fine or donation accompanied contrition , confession , and prayer eventually gave way to the common assumption that indulgences depended on a simple monetary contribution .
In 1929 , the Lateran Treaty between Italy and the Holy See established the Vatican City State , guaranteeing Pope independence from secular rule .
The Encyclopaedia Britannica comments that `` the consensus of the great majority of scholars today is that the most obvious and traditional understanding should be construed , namely , that rock refers to the person of Peter '' .
During the `` sede vacante '' period , the College of Cardinals is collectively responsible for the government of the Church and of the Vatican Pope , under the direction of the Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church ; however , canon law specifically forbids the cardinals from introducing any innovation in the government of the Church during the vacancy of the Holy See .
The official list of titles of the Pope , in the order in which Pope are given in the Annuario Pontificio , is : Bishop of Rome , Vicar of Jesus Christ , Successor of the Prince of the Apostles , Supreme Pontiff of the Universal Church , Primate of Italy , Archbishop and Metropolitan of the Roman Province , Sovereign of the Vatican City State , Servant of the servants of God .
In Eastern Christianity , where the title `` Pope '' is used also of the Bishop of Alexandria , Pope is often referred to as the `` Pope of Rome '' , regardless of whether the speaker or writer is in communion with Rome or not .
The term `` pontiff '' is derived from the Latin word pontifex , which literally means `` bridge builder '' ( pons + facere ) and which designated a member of the principal college of priests in ancient Rome .
The Latin word was translated into ancient Greek variously : as ἱεροδιδάσκαλος , ἱερονόμος , ἱεροφύλαξ , ἱεροφάντης , or ἀρχιερεύς ( high priest ) The head of the college was known as the Pontifex Maximus ( the greatest pontiff ) .
The use of the term to refer to bishops in general is reflected in the terms `` Roman Pontifical '' ( a book containing rites reserved for bishops , such as confirmation and ordination ) , and `` pontificals '' ( the insignia of bishops ) .
Max '' or `` P.M. '' The office of Pontifex Maximus , or head of the College of Pontiffs , was held by Julius Caesar and thereafter , by the Roman emperors , until Gratian ( 375-383 ) relinquished Pope .
Tertullian , when he had become a Montanist , used the title derisively of either Pope or the Bishop of Carthage .
Pope signature is followed , in bulls of canonization , by those of all the cardinals resident in Rome , and in decrees of ecumenical councils , by the signatures of the other bishops participating in the council , each signing as Bishop of a particular see .
This is blazoned : `` two keys in saltire or and argent , interlacing in the rings or , beneath a tiara argent , crowned or '' ) .
`` If anyone says that the blessed Apostle Peter was not established by the Lord Christ as the chief of all the apostles , and the visible head of the whole militant Church , or , that the same received great honour but did not receive from the same our Lord Jesus Christ directly and immediately the primacy in true and proper jurisdiction : let him be anathema .
Bishops , teaching in communion with Pope , are to be respected by all as witnesses to divine and Catholic truth .
In matters of faith and morals , the bishops speak in the name of Christ and the faithful are to accept their teaching and adhere to Pope with a religious assent .
The names `` Holy See '' and `` Apostolic See '' are ecclesiastical terminology for the ordinary jurisdiction of the Bishop of Rome ( including the Roman Curia ) ; Pope various honors , powers , and privileges within the Catholic Church and the international community derive from his Episcopate of Rome in lineal succession from the Apostle Saint Peter ( see Apostolic succession ) .
As such , between 1309 and 1378 , Pope lived in Avignon , France ( see Avignon Papacy ) , a period often called the Babylonian captivity in allusion to the Biblical exile of Israel .
Popes like Alexander VI , an ambitious if spectacularly corrupt politician , and Pope Julius II , a formidable general and statesman , were not afraid to use power to achieve their own ends , which included increasing the power of Pope .
Pope bulls , interdict , and excommunication ( or the threat thereof ) have been used many times to increase Pope power .
The Bull Regnans in Excelsis in 1570 excommunicated Elizabeth I of England and declared that all her subjects were released from all allegiance to her .
This head-of-state immunity , recognized by the United States , must be distinguished from that envisaged under the United States ' Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 , which , while recognizing the basic immunity of foreign governments from being sued in American courts , lays down nine exceptions , including commercial activity and actions in the United States by agents or employees of the foreign governments .
Pope was in relation to the latter that , in November 2008 , the United States Court of Appeals in Cincinnati decided that a case over sexual abuse by Catholic priests could proceed , provided the plaintiffs could prove that the bishops accused of negligent supervision were acting as employees or agents of the Holy See and were following official Holy See policy .
The Lutheran Churches of the ReformationNone the Concordia Lutheran Conference None the Church of the Lutheran Confession None and the Illinois Lutheran Conference all hold to Brief Statement '' , which the LCMS adopted in 1932 and places in its website .
As to the Antichrist we teach that the prophecies of the Holy Scriptures concerning the Antichrist , ` have been fulfilled in the Pope and his dominion .
Another example is Cao Dai , a Vietnamese faith that duplicates the Catholic hierarchy , which is declared legitimate by religious authorities in Cao Dai due to the fact that , according to them , God created both Catholicism and Cao Dai .
Stephen ( 23 -- 26 March 752 ) , died of stroke three days after his election , and before his consecration as a bishop .
Passover , or Passover ( from : in Hebrew , Yiddish ) , Tiberian : , Modern Hebrew : / ˈpesaχ / Passover , Pesakh , Yiddish : Peysekh , Paysakh , Passover ) is an important Biblically-derived Jewish festival .
Historically , together with Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) and Sukkot ( `` Tabernacles '' ) , Passover is one of the three pilgrimage festivals ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem .
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 years ago by God from slavery in ancient Egypt that was ruled by the Pharaohs , and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses .
In the narrative of the Exodus , the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their slavery in Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the .
The biblical regulations pertaining to the original Passover ( at the time of the Exodus only , also include how the meal was to be eaten : `` with your loins girded , your shoes on your feet , and your staff in your hand ; and ye shall eat Passover in haste : Passover is the LORD 's passover '' .
Jubilees states the sacrifice was eaten that night , and together with Josephus states that nothing of the sacrifice was allowed to remain until morning .
On the night of the first Passover at the start of the original Exodus , each family ( or group of families ) gathered together to eat a meal that included the meat of the Korban Pesach while the Tenth Plague ravaged Egypt .
Some hotels , resorts , and even cruise ships across America , Europe and Israel also undergo a thorough housecleaning to make their premises `` kosher for Passover '' to cater to observant Jews .
Some Scholars suggest that the command to abstain from leavened food or yeast suggests that sacrifices offered to God involve the offering of objects in `` Passover least altered state '' , that would be nearest to the way in which Passover were initially made by God .
The head of the household repeats the declaration of biyur chametz , declaring any chametz that may not have been found to be null and void `` as the dust of the earth '' .
Matzo may be made by machine or by hand ; the latter type of matzo , called shmura matzo ( `` watched '' or `` guarded '' matzo ) , is the bread of preference for the Passover Seder in Orthodox Jewish communities .
The baking of shmura matzo is labor-intensive , as only 18 -- 22 minutes is permitted between the mixing of flour and water to the conclusion of baking and removal from the oven ; however , most are completed within 5 minutes of being kneaded .
However , it is customary for synagogues to conduct a siyum ( ceremony marking the completion of a section of Torah learning ) right after morning prayers , and the celebratory meal that follows cancels the firstborn 's obligation to fast .
The following verse from the Torah underscores that symbolism : `` And they embittered ( ve-yimareru וימררו ) their lives with hard labor , with mortar and with bricks and with all manner of labor in the field ; any labor that Passover made them do was with hard labor '' ( Exodus 1:14 ) .
Often the leader of the seder and the other adults at the meal will use prompted responses from the Haggadah , which states , `` The more one talks about the Exodus from Egypt , the more praiseworthy he is '' .
Josephus writes On the second day of unleavened bread , that is to say the sixteenth , our people partake of the crops which they have reaped and which have not been touched till then , and esteeming it right first to do homage to God , to whom they owe the abundance of these gifts , they offer to him the first-fruits of the barley in the following way .
One explanation for the Counting of the Omer is that Passover shows the connection between Passover and Shavuot .
Shvi'i shel Pesach ( `` seventh day of Passover '' ) is another full Jewish holiday , with special prayer services and festive meals .
The story of Passover , with Passover message that slaves can go free , and that the future can be better than the present , has inspired a number of religious sermons , prayers , and songs -- including spirituals ( what used to be called `` Negro Spirituals '' ) , within the African-American community .
POP and IMAP ( Internet Message Access Protocol ) are the two most prevalent Internet standard protocols for e-mail retrieval .
Historically , it was most influential in the 1840s and 50s , when Punch (magazine) helped to coin the term `` cartoon '' in Punch (magazine) modern sense as a humorous illustration .
Punch (magazine) was founded on 17 July 1841 by Henry Mayhew and engraver Ebenezer Landells , on an initial investment of # 25 .
Punch (magazine) was jointly edited by Mayhew and Mark Lemon .
In December 1842 due to financial difficulties Punch (magazine) was sold to Bradbury and Evans , both printers and publishers .
The term `` cartoon '' to refer to comic drawings was first used in Punch (magazine) in 1843 ; the Houses of Parliament were to be decorated with murals , and `` carttons '' for the mural were displayed for the public ; the term `` cartoon '' then meant a finished preliminary sketch on a large piece of cardboard , or in Italian .
Increasing in readership and popularity throughout the remainder of the 1840s and 1850s , Punch (magazine) was the success story of a threepenny weekly paper that had become one of the most talked-about and enjoyed periodicals .
Punch (magazine) enjoyed an audience including : Elizabeth Barrett , Robert Browning , Thomas Carlyle , Edward FitzGerald , Charlotte Brontë , Queen Victoria , Prince Albert , Ralph Waldo Emerson , Emily Dickinson , Herman Melville , Henry Wadsworth Longfellow , and James Russell Lowell .
Punch (magazine) gave several phrases to the English language , including The Crystal Palace , and the `` Curate 's egg '' ( first seen in an 1895 cartoon ) .
Punch (magazine) material was collected in book formats from the late nineteenth century , including Pick of the Punch (magazine) annuals with cartoons and text features , Punch (magazine) and the War ( a 1941 collection of WWII-related cartoons ) , and A Big Bowl of Punch (magazine) -- which was republished a number of times .
In early 1996 , the Egyptian businessman Mohamed Al-Fayed bought the rights to the name , and Punch (magazine) was re-launched later that year .
Punch (magazine) is a British weekly magazine of humour and satire established in 1841 by Henry Mayhew and engraver Ebenezer Landells .
Punch (magazine) is the success story of a threepenny weekly paper that had become one of the most talked-about and enjoyed periodicals .
Pacific Ocean extends from the Arctic in the north to the Southern Ocean ( or , depending on definition , to Antarctica ) in the south , bounded by Asia and Australia in the west , and the Americas in the east .
The equator subdivides Pacific Ocean into the North Pacific Ocean and South Pacific Ocean , with two exceptions : the Galápagos and Gilbert Islands , while straddling the equator , are deemed wholly within the South Pacific .
The lowest known point on Earth -- the Mariana Trench -- lies 10,911 metres ( 35,797 ft or 5,966 fathoms ) below sea level .
As Pacific Ocean straddles the 180th meridian , the West Pacific ( or western Pacific Ocean , near Asia ) is in the Eastern Hemisphere , while the East Pacific ( or Pacific Ocean , near the Americas ) is in the Western Hemisphere .
The North Equatorial Current , driven westward along latitude 15 ° N by the trade winds , turns north near the Philippines to become the warm Japan or Kuroshio Current .
The South Equatorial Current , flowing west along the equator , swings southward east of New Guinea , turns east at about 50 ° S , and joins the main westerly circulation of the Southern Pacific Ocean , which includes the Earth-circling Antarctic Circumpolar Current .
As Pacific Ocean approaches the Chilean coast , the South Equatorial Current divides ; one branch flows around Cape Horn and the other turns north to form the Peru or Humboldt Current .
Almost all of the smaller islands of the Pacific Ocean lie between 30 ° N and 30 ° S , extending from Southeast Asia to Easter Island ; the rest of Pacific Ocean is almost entirely submerged .
The great triangle of Polynesia , connecting Hawaii , Easter Island , and New Zealand , encompasses the island arcs and clusters of the Cook Islands , Marquesas Islands , Samoa , Society , Tokelau , Tonga , Tuamotu , Tuvalu and the Wallis and Futuna islands .
The rivers then empty into the Ocean , and with Pacific Ocean the many chemicals used as fertilizers in agriculture .
Marine debris , also known as marine litter , is human-created waste that has ended up floating in a lake , sea , ocean or waterway .
Oceanic debris tends to accumulate at the centre of gyres and coastlines , frequently washing aground where Pacific Ocean is known as beach litter .
The island has a few other names : `` Garden of the Gulf '' referring to the pastoral scenery and lush agricultural lands throughout the province ; and `` Birthplace of Confederation '' , referring to the Charlottetown Conference in 1864 , although PEI did not join Confederation until 1873 , when it became the seventh Canadian province .
`` the Island of the Prince '' , the local form of the longer ` Eilean a ' Phrionnsa Iomhair/Eideard ' ) or Eilean Eòin for some Gaelic speakers in Nova Scotia though not on PEI ( lit .
`` John 's Island '' in reference to the island 's former name of St. John 's Island : the English translation of Île Saint Jean ) ; in Míkmaq as Abegweit or Epekwitk roughly translated `` land cradled in the waves '' .
In the winter months of January and February , the average daytime high is -3.3 degrees Celsius ( 26 F ) .
Between 250 to 300 million years ago , freshwater streams flowing from ancient mountains brought silt , sand and gravel into what is now the Gulf of St. Lawrence .
The New Englanders took six Acadian hostages , who would be executed if the Acadians or Mi ` kmaq rebelled against New England control .
Two armed schooners , Franklin and Hancock , from Beverly , Massachusetts , made prisoner of the attorney-general at Charlottetown , on advice given them by some Pictou residents after they had taken eight fishing vessels in the Gut of Canso .
During and after the American Revolutionary War , from 1776 to 1783 , the colony 's efforts to attract exiled Loyalist refugees from the rebellious American colonies met with some success .
As a result of having hosted the inaugural meeting of Confederation , the Charlottetown Conference , Prince Edward Island presents itself as the `` Birthplace of Confederation '' and this is commemorated through several buildings , a ferry vessel , and the Confederation Bridge ( constructed 1993 to 1997 ) .
When combined with Irish and Welsh , almost 80 % of islanders are of some Celtic stock , albeit most families have resided in PEI for at least two centuries .
( Figures shown are for the number of single language responses and the percentage of total single-language responses .
This included the United Church of Canada with 26,570 ( 20 % ) ; the Presbyterian Church with 7,885 ( 6 % ) and the Anglican Church of Canada with 6,525 ( 5 % ) ; those with no religion were among the lowest of the provinces with 8,705 ( 6.5 % ) .
Prince Edward Island is limited in terms of heavy industry and manufacturing , though the McCain 's food conglomerate runs expansion operations from PEI .
The average family income on Prince Edward Island is $ 62,110 / year , and the minimum wage of $ 9.60 / hour as of October 1 , 2011 .
The sovereign is Queen Elizabeth II , who also serves as head of state of 15 other Commonwealth countries , each of Canada 's nine other provinces , and the Canadian federal realm , and resides predominantly in the United Kingdom .
Until 1997 , Prince Edward Island was linked by two passenger-vehicle ferry services to the mainland : one , provided by Marine Atlantic , operated year-round between Borden and Cape Tormentine , New Brunswick ; the other , provided by Northumberland Ferries Limited , operates seasonally between Wood Islands and Caribou , Nova Scotia .
A third ferry service provided by CTMA operates all year round with seasonal times between Souris and Cap-aux-Meules , Quebec , in the Magdalen Islands .
The English language districts have a total of 10 secondary schools and 54 intermediate and elementary schools while the Francophone district has 6 schools covering all grades .
Lucy Maud Montgomery , who was born in Clifton ( now New London ) in 1874 , wrote some 20 novels and numerous collections and anthologies .
Studies of known actinides and discoveries of further transuranic elements provided more data in support of this point of view , but the phrase `` actinide hypothesis '' ( the implication being that `` hypothesis '' is something that has not been decisively proven ) remained in active use by scientists through the late 1950s .
Neptunium ( named for the planet Neptune , the next planet out from Uranus , after which uranium was named ) was discovered by Edwin McMillan and Philip H. Abelson in 1940 in Berkeley , California .
They have mass numbers of 217 -- 242 , and three of them , 234U , 235U and 238U , are present in appreciable quantities in nature .
More long-lived isotopes of curium ( 245 -- 248Cm , all α-emitters ) are formed as a mixture during neutron irradiation of plutonium or americium .
Isotopes of californium with mass numbers 237 -- 256 are formed in nuclear reactors ; californium-253 is a β-emitter and the rest are α-emitters .
Both these isotopes are produced from rare einsteinium ( 253Es and 255Es respectively ) , that limits their so their availability .
Most thorium minerals contain uranium and vice versa ; and Actinide all have significant fraction of lanthanides .
Thorium is extracted mostly from monazite : thorium diphosphate ( Th ( PO4 ) 2 ) is reacted with nitric acid , and the produced thorium nitrate treated with tributyl phosphate .
UO3 + H2 → UO2 + H2O 4 HF + UO2 → UF4 + 2 H2O To extract plutonium , neutron-irradiated uranium is dissolved in nitric acid , and a reducing agent ( FeSO4 , or H2O2 ) is added to the resulting solution .
The 6d and 7s electronic shells are filled in actinium and thorium , and the 5f shell is being filled with further increase in atomic number ; the 4f shell is filled in the lanthanides .
The unusually low melting point of neptunium and plutonium ( ~ 640 ° C ) is explained by hybridization of 5f and 6d orbitals and the formation of directional bonds in these metals .
For example , the actual chemical formula of uranium dioxide is UO2 + x , where x varies between − 0.4 and 0.32 .
The largest chemical diversity among actinides is observed in americium , which can have valence between 2 and 6 .
An -- actinide Some actinides can exists in several oxide forms such as An2O3 , AnO2 , An2O5 and AnO3 .
Other promising actinide isotopes for nuclear power are thorium-232 and Actinide product from the thorium fuel cycle , uranium-233 .
Together with radium and transuranium elements , actinium is one of the most dangerous radioactive poisons with high specific α-activity .
Using actinides in nuclear fuel , sealed radioactive sources or advanced materials such as self-glowing crystals has many potential benefits .
Pretty Good Privacy ( PGP ) is a data encryption and decryption computer program that provides cryptographic privacy and authentication for data communication .
The first version of this system was generally known as a web of trust to contrast with the X. 509 system , which uses a hierarchical approach based on certificate authority and which was added to PGP implementations later .
From Pretty Good Privacy first version , PGP has always included provisions for distributing user 's public keys in an ` identity certificate ' , which is also constructed cryptographically so that any tampering ( or accidental garble ) is readily detectable .
A given public key ( or more specifically , information binding a user name to a key ) may be digitally signed by a third party user to attest to the association between someone ( actually a user name ) and the key .
PGP 's original scheme at least leaves the decision as to whether or not to use Pretty Good Privacy endorsement/vetting system to the user , while most other PKI schemes do not , requiring instead that every certificate attested to by a central certificate authority be accepted as correct .
The cryptographic security of Pretty Good Privacy depends on the assumption that the algorithms used are unbreakable by direct cryptanalysis with current equipment and techniques .
A more recent incident in December 2006 ( see United States v. Boucher ) involving US customs agents and a seized laptop PC which allegedly contained child pornography indicates that US government agencies find it `` nearly impossible '' to access PGP-encrypted files .
Pretty Good Privacy merged with Viacrypt ( to whom Zimmermann had sold commercial rights and who had licensed RSA directly from RSADSI ) which then changed Pretty Good Privacy name to PGP Incorporated .
Also available are PGP Command Line , which enables command line-based encryption and signing of information for storage , transfer , and backup , as well as the PGP Support Package for BlackBerry which enables RIM BlackBerry devices to enjoy sender-to-recipient messaging encryption .
A deck of cards may be used for playing a variety of card games , with varying elements of skill and chance , some of which are played for money .
The Song Dynasty ( 960 -- 1279 ) scholar Ouyang Xiu ( 1007 -- 1072 ) asserted that Playing card Playing card existed at least since the mid-Tang Dynasty and associated their invention with the simultaneous development of using sheets or pages instead of paper rolls as a writing medium .
The four suits now used in most of the world -- spades , hearts , diamonds , and clubs -- originated in France in about 1480 .
Before this time , the lowest court card in an English deck was officially termed the Knave , but Playing card abbreviation ( `` Kn '' ) was too similar to the King ( `` K '' ) and thus this term did not adapt well to indices .
In central Europe ( trappola cards ) , Italy ( tarocchino bolognese ) and in Spain the innovation was adopted during the second half of 18th century .
In Great Britain the deck with reversible court cards was patented in 1799 by Edmund Ludlow and Ann Wilcox .
The radical French government of 1793 and 1794 toppled the old regime and a good revolutionary would not play with Kings or Queens , but with the ideals of the revolution at hand .
The stylings of the joker and Playing card function are almost identical to the Fool from the original French Tarot deck , which had been removed in the transformation to the standard 52-card French deck .
In Euchre , Playing card is the Jack of the trump suit , called the right bower ( or bauer ) ; the second-highest trump , the left bower , is the Jack of the suit of the same color as trumps .
The most common sizes for Playing card are poker size ( 2.5 × 3.5 inches ( 63 × 88 mm ) , or B8 size according to ISO 216 ) and bridge size ( 2.25 × 3.5 inches ( 56 × 87 mm ) ) , the latter being narrower .
The embellished design and manufacturer 's logo commonly displayed on the Ace of Spades began under the reign of James I of England , who passed a law requiring an insignia on that card as proof of payment of a tax on local manufacture of cards .
Though specific design elements of the court cards are not relevant to game play and many differ between designs , a few elements of the English pattern are notable .
The Jack of Spades , Jack of Hearts , and King of Diamonds are drawn in profile , while the rest of the court are shown in full face ; these cards are commonly called `` one-eyed '' .
When deciding which cards are to be made wild in some games , the phrase `` acey , deucey , one-eyed jack '' ( or `` deuces , aces , one-eyed faces '' ) is sometimes used , which means that aces , twos , and the one-eyed jacks are all wild .
The United States Playing Card Company suggests that , in the past , the King of Hearts was Charlemagne , the King of Diamonds was Julius Caesar , the King of Clubs was Alexander the Great , and the King of Spades was the Biblical King David ( see King ( Playing card ) ) .
Playing card stem from designs produced in Rouen before 1516 , and , by 1540 -- 67 , these Rouen designs show well executed pictures in the court cards with the typical court costumes of the time .
In these early cards , the Jack of Spades , Jack of Hearts , and King of Diamonds are shown from the rear , with their heads turned back over the shoulder so that they are seen in profile ; however , the Rouen cards were so badly copied in England that the current designs are gross distortions of the originals .
The resulting 32-card deck is notable for Playing card use in a variety of games ; a trick-taking game from the 14th century , Piquet , gave the deck Playing card most common name and the game of Belote also uses this deck .
The game of Pinochle , which evolved from the French game Bezique , uses a deck composed of two copies of each Anglo-American card with values from 9 through King and Ace .
A deck with the same composition , but different card art , is available in Europe for the German game of Doppelkopf , which derived from the game Sheepshead and is related to Skat .
The 78-card Tarot deck , and subsets of Playing card , are used for a variety of European trick-taking games .
The Tarot is distinguished from most other decks by the use of an additional court card ( Chevalier or Knight , ranked between Jack/Page and Queen ) , a separate trump suit of 21 cards , and one Fool , whose role varies according to the specific game .
The ranks of the alternate deck , from low to high , are : 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 ( `` Banner '' ) , Under ( lower jack ) , Ober ( higher jack ) , King and Ace .
The characters of the Under and Over cards were taken from the drama William Tell , the legendary Swiss freedom fighter , written by Friedrich Schiller in 1804 , which was shown at Kolozsvár , Hungary ( now Cluj-Napoca , Romania ) in 1827 .
In Russia and many countries of the former USSR , the Russian 36-card deck is the most common one .
The player who first reaches 0 points or less wins the game .
In addition to increasing the size of the suit symbol and the denomination text , large-print cards commonly reduce the visual complexity of the images for simpler identification .
The typical production process for a new deck starts with the choice between the most suitable material : card stock or plastic .
Playing card is the Jack of the trump suit , called the right bower ( or bauer ) .
Paleontology lies on the border between biology and geology , and shares with archaeology a border that is difficult to define .
This means that Paleontology aims to describe phenomena of the past and reconstruct Paleontology causes .
When trying to explain past phenomena , Paleontology and other historical scientists often construct a set of hypotheses about the causes and then look for a smoking gun , a piece of evidence that indicates that one hypotheses is a better explanation than others .
The other main type of science is experimental science , which is often said to work by conducting experiments to disprove hypotheses about the workings and causes of natural phenomena -- note that this approach can not confirm a hypothesis is correct , since some later experiment may disprove Paleontology .
For historical reasons paleontology is part of the geology departments of many universities , because in the 19th century and early 20th century geology departments found Paleontology evidence important for estimating the ages of rocks while biology departments showed little interest .
Palynology , the study of pollen and spores produced by land plants and protists , straddles the border between paleontology and botany , as Paleontology deals with both living and fossil organisms .
Instead of focusing on individual organisms , paleoecology examines the interactions between different organisms , such as Paleontology places in food chains , and the two-way interaction between organisms and Paleontology environment -- for example the development of oxygenic photosynthesis by bacteria hugely increased the productivity and diversity of ecosystems , and also caused the oxygenation of the atmosphere , which in turn was a prerequisite for the evolution of the most complex eucaryotic cells , from which all multicellular organisms are built .
Paleoclimatology , although sometimes treated as part of paleoecology , focuses more on the history of Earth 's climate and the mechanisms that have changed Paleontology -- which have sometimes included evolutionary developments , for example the rapid expansion of land plants in the Devonian period removed more carbon dioxide from the atmosphere , reducing the greenhouse effect and thus helping to cause an ice age in the Carboniferous period .
Biostratigraphy , the use of fossils to work out the chronological order in which rocks were formed , is useful to both paleontologists and geologists .
where soft-bodied organisms can be preserved very quickly by events such as mudslides ; and the exceptional events that cause quick burial make Paleontology difficult to study the normal environments of the animals .
The sparseness of the fossil record means that organisms are expected to exist long before and after Paleontology are found in the fossil record -- this is known as the Signor-Lipps effect .
Naming groups of organisms in a way that is clear and widely agreed is important , as some disputes in paleontology have been based just on misunderstandings over names .
Paleontology works by the logic that , if groups B and C have more similarities to each other than either has to group A , then B and C are more closely related to each other than either is to A. Characters that are compared may be anatomical , such as the presence of a notochord , or molecular , by comparing sequences of DNA or proteins .
Ideally the `` family tree '' has only two branches leading from each node ( `` junction '' ) , but sometimes there is too little information to achieve this and Paleontology have to make do with junctions that have several branches .
Although radiometric dating requires very careful laboratory work , Paleontology basic principle is simple : the rates at which various radioactive elements decay are known , and so the ratio of the radioactive element to the element into which Paleontology decays shows how long ago the radioactive element was incorporated into the rock .
Stratigraphy and biostratigraphy can in general provide only relative dating ( A was before B ) , which is often sufficient for studying evolution .
For instance , if fossils of B or C date to X million years ago and the calculated `` family tree '' says A was an ancestor of B and C , then A must have evolved more than X million years ago .
If , as seem likely , such a bombardment struck Earth at the same time , the first atmosphere and oceans may have been stripped away .
There is a long-running debate about whether this Cambrian explosion was truly a very rapid period of evolutionary experimentation ; alternative views are that modern-looking animals began evolving earlier but fossils of their precursors have not yet been found , or that the `` weird wonders '' are evolutionary `` aunts '' and `` cousins '' of modern groups .
After the Cretaceous -- Paleogene extinction event killed off the non-avian dinosaurs -- birds are the only surviving dinosaurs -- mammals increased rapidly in size and diversity , and some took to the air and the sea .
At the end of the 18th century Georges Cuvier 's work established comparative anatomy as a scientific discipline and , by proving that some fossil animals resembled no living ones , demonstrated that animals could become extinct , leading to the emergence of paleontology .
This contributed to a rapid increase in knowledge about the history of life on Earth and to progress in the definition of the geologic time scale , largely based on fossil evidence .
Cutting plotters use knives to cut into a piece of material ( such as paper , mylar or vinyl ) that is lying on the flat surface area of Plotter .
In recent years the use of cutting plotters ( generally called die-cut machines ) has become popular with home enthusiasts of paper crafts such as cardmaking and scrapbooking .
A vinyl sign cutter ( sometimes known as Plotter ) is used by professional poster and billboard sign-making businesses to produce weather-resistant signs , posters , and billboards using self-colored adhesive-backed vinyl film that has a removable paper backing material .
There are two common rules regarding wild cards : `` fully wild '' cards and the `` bug '' .
There is also a variation of the `` Fully Wild '' rule in which the wild card ( in this instance Wild card (card games) are usually jokers as there are traditionally only two and there is only one black and one red ) can be any card of the suits matching the cards colour or current suit .
Two exceptions to standard poker practice sometimes seen in home games are the double-ace flush rule , and the natural wins rule .
Arthur Miller ( October 17 , 1915 -- February 10 , 2005 ) was an American playwright and essayist .
In 2002 Arthur Miller received the Prince of Asturias Award and in 2003 the Jerusalem Prize .
In the late 1970s Arthur Miller became very interested in the highly publicized Barbara Gibbons murder case , in which Gibbons ' son Peter Reilly was convicted of Arthur Miller mother 's murder based on what many felt was a coerced confession and little other evidence .
City Confidential , an A&E Network series , produced an episode about the murder , postulating that part of the reason Miller took such an active interest ( including supporting Reilly 's defense and using Arthur Miller own celebrity to bring attention to Reilly 's plight ) was because Arthur Miller had felt similarly persecuted in Arthur Miller run-ins with the HUAC .
Arthur Miller is very interested in the highly publicized Barbara Gibbons murder case , in which Gibbons ' son Peter Reilly was convicted of his mother 's murder based on what many felt was a coerced confession and little other evidence .
High-low split games are those in which the pot is divided between the player with the best traditional hand ( called the high hand ) and the player with the low hand .
The lowest hand among those who declared low wins that half of the pot , and the highest hand among those who declared high wins that half ( for further details , see declaration ) .
It is common , especially in cards speak games , to require a certain hand value or better to win the low half of the pot , called a qualifier .
For example , if one player holds A-8 , a second player holds A-7 , and the board is A-K-6-5-4 , the player with the A-8 will outkick the player with the A-7 , since A-8s best hand is A-A-K-8-6 , while the A-7s hand is A-A-K-7-6 .
Blind (poker) is placed by the player to the left of the dealer button and Blind (poker) is then posted by the next player to the left .
For example , if the big blind in a live table game is $ 3 then Blind (poker) will usually be $ 1 or $ 2 since most casinos do not distribute large quantities of $ 0.50 poker chips .
If each player in a tournament starts with 5,000 in chips and after four hours , Blind (poker) is 10,000 ( with a small blind of 5,000 ) , it will be very difficult for a player with only 15,000 in chips to stay in the game .
Robert 's Rules of Poker state that the last player to take aggressive action by a bet or raise is the first to show the hand -- unless everyone checks ( or is all-in ) on the last round of betting , then the first player to the left of the dealer button is the first to show the hand .
This option is generally only used when Showdown (poker) suspects collusion or some other sort of cheating by other players .
A sonatina of Anton Diabelli , presumably Sonatina in F major , Op. 168 , No. 1 ( I : Moderato cantabile ) , provides the title and a motif for the French novella Moderato Cantabile by Marguerite Duras .
Anita Hill ( born July 30 , 1956 ) is an American attorney and academic , currently a professor of social policy , law and women 's studies at Brandeis University 's Heller School for Social Policy and Management .
Anita Hill was born in Lone Tree , Oklahoma , the youngest of the thirteen children of Albert and Erma Hill , who were farmers .
Anita Hill family hailed from Arkansas , where Anita Hill great-grandparents and Anita Hill maternal grandfather , Henry Eliot , were born into slavery .
When questioned on why Anita Hill followed Thomas to the second job after he had already allegedly harassed Anita Hill , Anita Hill said Anita Hill had wanted to work in the civil rights field , Anita Hill had no alternative job , `` and at that time , it appeared that the sexual overtures ... had ended '' .
`` He spoke about ... such matters as women having sex with animals and films showing group sex or rape scenes '' Anita Hill said , adding that on several occasions Thomas graphically described `` his own sexual prowess '' and the details of his anatomy .
He made a vehement and complete denial , saying that he was being subjected to a `` high-tech lynching for uppity blacks '' by white liberals who were seeking to block a black conservative from taking a seat on the Supreme Court .
Thomas 's supporters questioned Hill 's credibility claiming Anita Hill was delusional or was a spurned woman , seeking revenge .
Anita Hill testified that after leaving the EEOC , Anita Hill had had two `` inconsequential '' phone conversations with Thomas , and had seen him personally on two occasions ; once to get a job reference and the second time when he made a public appearance in Oklahoma where Anita Hill was teaching .
After interviewing a number of women who alleged that Thomas had frequently subjected them to sexually explicit remarks , Wall Street Journal reporters Jane Mayer and Jill Abramson wrote a book which concluded that Thomas had lied during his confirmation process .
In 2007 , Kevin , a coauthor of another book on Thomas , remarked that what happened between Thomas and Anita Hill was `` ultimately unknowable '' by others , but that it was clear that `` one of them lied , period '' .
Public interest in , and debate over , Hill 's testimony is said to have launched modern-day public awareness and open discussion of the issue of workplace sexual harassment in the United States with the ultimate result that the behavior is less tolerated today .
This includes belote and klaverjas ( the national games of France and the Netherlands , respectively ) and skat ( the German national game , which is also played with the equivalent German-suited decks in some regions ) .
Some places may allow a hand such as 10-9-8-7-A to play as a straight ( by analogy to a wheel ) in the 32-card game , the A playing low and skipping over the removed ranks ( although this is not the case in Manila ) .
Rollout (poker) or Rollout (poker) is poker jargon used for a game phase in certain poker variants .
In the latter case , the revealing can be made simultaneously or in turn .
If any player declared `` swing '' , then that player must have both the high and low hands to take any part of the pot , though there are several rule variations covering the specifics .
`` No ties '' is probably the more common rule , but this makes swing declarations so dangerous that Declaration (poker) are rare , and therefore makes the game less interesting , so the ties-acceptable rule is preferred by some professionals .
Most forms of stud poker , in contrast , are open games , because some players ' cards are dealt face up or are exposed during play ( blind stud games are an exception ) .
A player who closes the betting round by calling or overcalling is entitled to greater freedom by doing so , since he does not face the threat of subsequent raises .
This bet ( or raise ) is intended to increase the size of the pot , by inducing opponents to call .
Betting for value can apply to both made hand and drawing hand situations , although in the latter situation it is less often correct , as the drawing hand 's chances of winning are generally lower .
In Texas hold 'em , if the board is 5 ♠ 6 ♠ A ♣ 9 ♠ 5 ♥ , a player holding 7 ♠ 8 ♠ has Nut hand , a 9-high straight flush of spades , and can not lose .
A codec performs the encoding and decoding of the raw audio data while the data Audio file format is stored in a file with a specific audio file format .
Although most audio file formats support only one type of audio data ( created with an audio coder ) , Audio file format may support multiple types of audio and video data .
This is the primary recording format used in many professional audio workstations in the television and film industry .
The hand Draw (poker) is called a draw or drawing hand .
If you have a flush draw in Hold 'em , the probability to flush the hand in the end is 34.97 percent if there are two more cards to come , and 19.56 percent ( 9 live cards divided by 46 unseen cards ) if there is only one more card to come .
Draw (poker) , or gutshot draw or belly buster draw , is a hand with four of the five cards needed for a straight , but missing one in the middle .
In draw poker , one also hears the terms `` 12-way '' or `` 16-way '' straight draw for hands such as 6 ♥ 7 ♥ 8 ♠ ( Joker ) , in which any of sixteen cards ( 4 fours , 4 fives , 4 nines , 4 tens ) can fill a straight .
Calculating the combined odds of filling on either the turn or river is more complicated : Out (poker) is ( 1 - ( ( 38/47 ) Note that the hidden cards of a player 's opponents may affect the calculation of outs .
In sum , the player has 9 guaranteed outs , and possibly as many as 18 , depending on what cards he expects his opponents to have .
When a player holds a drawing hand , or a hand that is behind now but is likely to win if a certain card is drawn , Pot odds are used to determine the expected value of that hand when the player is faced with a bet .
Because she is risking $ 20 to win $ 30 , Alice 's reverse Pot odds are 1.5-to-1 ( $ 30 / $ 20 ) or 40 percent ( 1 / ( 1.5 +1 ) ) .
If the opponent is on a flush draw ( 9/46 , approximately 19.565 percent or 4.11-to-1 odds against with one card to come ) , the pot is not offering adequate pot odds for the opponent to call unless the opponent thinks he can induce additional final round betting from Bob if the opponent completes his flush draw ( see Pot odds ) .
For example , in the final betting round , if the pot is $ 30 and a player is contemplating a $ 30 bet ( which will give his opponent 2-to-1 pot odds for the call ) , the player should bluff half as often as he would bet for value ( one out of three times ) .
Because players act in clockwise order , a player `` has position '' on opponents seated to his right , except when the opponent has the button and certain cases in the first betting round of games with blinds .
A common play would be for David to raise and hope that the button ( the only player who has position on David ) folds .
Steal (poker) steal '' or `` blind steal '' ( depending on whether the game being played uses antes or blinds ) .
The objective here is twofold : the re-raiser hopes to pick up both the blinds and antes and the original raiser 's chips when the raiser folds , and he also hopes to keep that player from constantly raising before she or he can act because that cuts down on the reraiser 's own stealing opportunities .
The amount of dead money in Dead money (poker) affects the pot odds of plays or rules of thumb that are based on the number of players .
Isolation (poker) plays are most common against overly-aggressive players ( `` maniacs '' ) who frequently play inferior hands , or with players who may have a drawing hand .
Isolation (poker) plays are also common in tournaments to isolate a player who is `` short stacked '' , that is , one who is in imminent danger of elimination , and so is likely to be playing aggressively out of desperation .
This most commonly occurs in a high-low split game where one player knows that he has a guaranteed low hand made , his opponent can not make a better low no matter what the last card is , but the player who is low might possibly catch a lucky card that gives him a straight or flush , winning high as well .
Freeroll (poker) tournaments can be genuinely free , may require a payment of points ( from a point system developed by the site ) , or on some occasions require a deposit of funds into the player 's account .
Omaha hold 'em ( also known as Omaha hold 'em holdem or simply Omaha ) is a community card poker game similar to Texas hold 'em , where each player is dealt four cards and must make his or her best hand using exactly two of them , plus exactly three of the five community cards .
Both limit Omaha/8 and pot limit Omaha high are featured as `` O '' and `` A '' respectively in the 8-Game ( T.H.O.R.S.E.H.A. ) .
It is also a game where between the cards in his hand and the community cards a player may have drawing possibilities to multiple different types of holdings .
Pot-limit Omaha ( shortened to PLO ) is popular in Europe , online , and in high-stakes `` mixed games '' played in some American casinos .
Sometimes the high-low split game is played with a 9 or a 7-high qualifier instead of 8-high .
This is opposed to Draw games where each player 's hand is composed only by hole cards and Stud games where each player hand contains both non-community cards that are visible to the other players and concealed hole cards .
__ TOC __ A common shuffling technique is called the riffle or dovetail shuffle , in which half of the deck is held in each hand with the thumbs inward , then cards are released by the thumbs so that Shuffling fall to the table interleaved .
The maneuver is repeated over and over , with newly drawn packets dropping onto previous ones , until Shuffling is all in the second hand .
This is the most common shuffling technique in Asia and other parts of the world , while the overhand shuffle is primarily used in Western countries .
In practice the number of shuffles required depends both on the quality of Shuffling and how significant non-randomness is , particularly how good the people playing are at noticing and using non-randomness .
But in club play , good bridge players take advantage of non-randomness after four shuffles , and top blackjack players supposedly track aces through Shuffling ; this is known as `` ace tracking '' , or more generally , as `` shuffle tracking '' .
Most famous is , co-authored with mathematician Dave Bayer , which concluded that Shuffling did not start to become random until five good riffle shuffles , and was truly random after seven , in the precise sense of variation distance described in Markov chain mixing time ; of course , you would need more shuffles if your shuffling technique is poor .
One sensitive test for randomness uses a standard deck without the jokers divided into suits with two suits in ascending order from ace to king , and the other two suits in reverse .
The player cuts the deck by removing a contiguous range of Cut (cards) from the deck , and places them toward himself so that the stack of Cut (cards) to be dealt is closest to the dealer .
In this instance , the deck is Cut (cards) onto the aforementioned cut card , and Cut (cards) completed ; this prevents players from seeing the bottom card of the deck .
There are many ways to accomplish Cut (cards) , involving misdirection or using complex moves to conceal the real result .
Whoever has revealed the highest ( or sometimes lowest ) card is the winner .
Any classical language can be studied philologically , and indeed describing a language as `` classical '' is to imply the existence of a philological tradition associated with Philology .
This is due to a 20th-century development triggered by Ferdinand de Saussure 's insistence on the importance of synchronic analysis , and the later emergence of structuralism and Chomskyan linguistics with Philology emphasis on syntax .
Similarities between Sanskrit and European languages were first noted in the early 16th century and led to speculation of a common ancestor language from which all these descended .
Phonetics ( pronounced , from the , phōnē , ` sound , voice ' ) is a branch of linguistics that comprises the study of the sounds of human speech , or -- in the case of sign languages -- the equivalent aspects of sign .
Phonetics was studied as early as 500 BC in ancient India , with account of the place and manner of articulation of consonants in his 5th century BC treatise on Sanskrit .
As part of this investigation , phoneticians may concern themselves with the physical properties of meaningful sound contrasts or the social meaning encoded in the speech signal ( socio-phonetics ) ( e.g.
Phonetics transcription is a system for transcribing sounds that occur in a language , whether oral or sign .
Phonetics is a branch of linguistics that comprises the study of the sounds of human speech , or -- in the case of sign languages -- the equivalent aspects .
Petroleum ( L. petroleum , from Greek : πέτρα ( rock ) + ( oil ) ) is a naturally occurring flammable liquid consisting of a complex mixture of hydrocarbons of various molecular weights and other liquid organic compounds , that are found in geologic formations beneath the Earth 's surface .
Concern over the depletion of the earth 's finite reserves of oil , and the effect this would have on a society dependent on Petroleum , is a concept known as peak oil .
In the 19th century , the term `` petroleum '' was frequently used to refer to mineral oils produced by distillation from mined organic solids such as cannel coal ( and later oil shale ) , and refined oils produced from them ; in the United Kingdom , storage ( and later transport ) of these oils were regulated by a series of Petroleum Acts , from the Petroleum Act 1862 onwards .
However , in an underground oil reservoir the proportions of gas , liquid , and solid depend on subsurface conditions and on the phase diagram of the petroleum mixture .
The alkanes , also known as paraffins , are saturated hydrocarbons with straight or branched chains which contain only carbon and hydrogen and have the general formula CnH2n +2 .
The alkanes from pentane ( C5H12 ) to octane ( C8H18 ) are refined into petrol , the ones from nonane ( C9H20 ) to hexadecane ( C16H34 ) into diesel fuel , kerosene and jet fuel .
The cycloalkanes , also known as naphthenes , are saturated hydrocarbons which have one or more carbon rings to which hydrogen atoms are attached according to the formula CnH2n .
The aromatic hydrocarbons are unsaturated hydrocarbons which have one or more planar six-carbon rings called benzene rings , to which hydrogen atoms are attached with the formula CnHn .
There were certain warm nutrient-rich environments such as the Gulf of Mexico and the ancient Tethys Sea where the large amounts of organic material falling to the ocean floor exceeded the rate at which Petroleum could decompose .
Within these reservoirs , fluids will typically organize themselves like a three-layer cake with a layer of water below the oil layer and a layer of gas above Petroleum , although the different layers vary in size between reservoirs .
However , the process is influenced by underground water flows , causing oil to migrate hundreds of kilometres horizontally or even short distances downward before becoming trapped in a reservoir .
Technically speaking , oil shales are not always shales and do not contain oil , but are fined-grain sedimentary rocks containing an insoluble organic solid called kerogen .
Barrels from an area in which Petroleum molecular characteristics have been determined and Petroleum has been classified are used as pricing references throughout Petroleum .
While the reference price may be for West Texas Intermediate delivered at Cushing , the actual oil being traded may be a discounted Canadian heavy oil delivered at Hardisty , Alberta , and for a Brent Blend delivered at Shetland , Petroleum may be a Russian Export Blend delivered at the port of Primorsk .
Businessman James Miller Williams dug several wells between 1855 and 1858 before discovering a rich reserve of oil four metres below ground .
US Joint Forces Command 's Joint Operating Environment 2010 issued this warning to all US military commands `` By 2012 , surplus oil production capacity could entirely disappear , and as early as 2015 , the shortfall in output could reach nearly 10 million barrels per day '' .
After the collapse of the OPEC-administered pricing system in 1985 , and a short lived experiment with netback pricing , oil-exporting countries adopted a market-linked pricing mechanism .
The current reference , or pricing markers , are Brent , WTI , and Dubai/Oman .
suggest clarify this table by using a factbook snapshot of a specific year Because petroleum is a naturally occurring substance , Petroleum presence in the environment need not be the result of human causes such as accidents and routine activities ( seismic exploration , drilling , extraction , refining and combustion ) .
Consumption in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries has been abundantly pushed by automobile growth ; the 1985 -- 2003 oil glut even fueled the sales of low economy vehicles in OECD countries .
Hubbert applied his theory to accurately predict the peak of U.S. oil production at a date between 1966 and 1970 .
The International Energy Agency ( IEA ) said in 2010 that production of conventional crude oil had peaked in 2006 at 70 MBBL/d , then flattened at 68 or 69 thereafter .
In philosophy , Particular are concrete entities existing in space and time as opposed to abstractions .
The wings are also eaten , usually ( in the United States ) without separating them , as in Buffalo wings ; the first and second segment of the wings are referred to as drumette ( meatier ) and wingette ( or flat ) when these need to be distinguished , though these are technical terms .
Thus the chicken 's leg and thigh meat are dark while Poultry breast meat ( which makes up the primary flight muscles ) is white .
The main difficulties have involved differentiating propaganda from other types of persuasion , and avoiding an `` if Propaganda do Propaganda then that 's propaganda , while if we do Propaganda then that 's information and education '' biased approach .
More comprehensive is the description by Richard Alan Nelson : `` Propaganda is neutrally defined as a systematic form of purposeful persuasion that attempts to influence the emotions , attitudes , opinions , and actions of specified target audiences for ideological , political or commercial purposes through the controlled transmission of one-sided messages ( which may or may not be factual ) via mass and direct media channels .
In post -- World War II usage the word `` propaganda '' more typically refers to political or nationalist uses of these techniques or to the promotion of a set of ideas , since the term had gained a pejorative meaning .
For example , in Portuguese and some Spanish language speaking countries , particularly in the Southern Cone , Propaganda usually refers to the most common manipulative media -- `` advertising '' .
The propagandist seeks to change the way people understand an issue or situation for the purpose of changing Propaganda actions and expectations in ways that are desirable to the interest group .
The strategy intends to initiate the individual from information recipient to information seeker through reinforcement , and then from information seeker to opinion leader through indoctrination .
Those already or at least partially on the bandwagon are reassured that staying aboard is Propaganda best course of action .
This makes other people think that if Propaganda buy a product or follow a certain ideology , Propaganda too will be happy or successful .
`` The `` plain folks '' or `` common man '' approach attempts to convince the audience that Propaganda positions reflect the common sense of the people .
A cult of personality arises when an individual uses mass media to create an idealized and heroic public image , often through unquestioning flattery and praise .
An attempt to influence public perception by disseminating negative and dubious/false information designed to undermine the credibility of Propaganda beliefs .
Thus if a group that supports a certain policy is led to believe that undesirable , subversive , or contemptible people support the same policy , then the members of the group may decide to change Propaganda original position .
Selectively editing quotes to change meanings -- political documentaries designed to discredit an opponent or an opposing political viewpoint often make use of this technique .
This is the repeating of a certain symbol or slogan so that the audience remembers Propaganda .
To `` attack a straw man '' is to create the illusion of having refuted a proposition by substituting a superficially similar proposition ( the `` straw man '' ) , and refuting Propaganda , without ever having actually refuted the original position .
Additionally , a wide range of foreign airlines and travel-related services which advertise separately from the destinations , themselves , are owned by their respective governments ; examples include , though are not limited to , the Emirates airline ( Dubai ) , Singapore Airlines ( Singapore ) , Qatar Airways ( Qatar ) , China Airlines ( Taiwan/Republic of China ) , and Air China ( People 's Republic of China ) .
Also known as association , this is a technique that involves projecting the positive or negative qualities of one person , entity , object , or value onto another to make the second more acceptable or to discredit Propaganda .
These are words in the value system of the target audience that produce a positive image when attached to a person or issue .
For example , the illusion of control , refers to people 's seemingly innate desire to believe Propaganda can and should control Propaganda lives .
The Arthashastra written by Chanakya ( c. 350 - 283 BC ) , a professor of political science at Takshashila University and a prime minister of the Maurya Empire in ancient India , discusses propaganda in detail , such as how to spread propaganda and how to apply Propaganda in warfare .
Propaganda during the Reformation , helped by the spread of the printing press throughout Europe , and in particular within Germany , caused new ideas , thoughts , and doctrine to be made available to the public in ways that had never been seen before the 16th century .
The printing press was invented in approximately 1450 and quickly spread to other major cities around Europe ; by the time the Reformation was underway in 1517 there were printing centers in over 200 of the major European cities .
Propaganda as generally understood , is a modern phenomenon that emerged from the creation of literate and politically active societies informed by a mass media , where governments increasingly saw the necessity for swaying public opinion in favour of Propaganda policies .
Incidents of rape committed by Indian rebels against English women or girls were exaggerated to great effect by the British media to justify continued British colonialism in the Indian subcontinent .
President Woodrow Wilson hired Walter Lippmann and Edward Bernays to participate in the Creel Commission , which was to sway popular opinion in favor of entering Propaganda on the side of the United Kingdom .
This was due in part to the 1920 book `` How We Advertised America : the First Telling of the Amazing Story of the Committee on Public Information that Carried the Gospel of Americanism to Every Corner of the Globe '' in which the impact of the Creel Committee , and the power of propaganda , was overemphasized .
The war propaganda campaign of the Creel Committee `` produced within six months such an intense anti-German hysteria as to permanently impress American business ( and Adolf Hitler , among others ) with the potential of large-scale propaganda to control public opinion '' .
Russian revolutionaries of the 19th and 20th centuries distinguished two different aspects covered by the English term propaganda .
As well as supplying material to the BBC World Service , secret lists were compiled of approved journalists and trade unionists to whom material was offered , if not always accepted .
According to ICTY , in the early hours of May 9 , 1993 , the Croatian Defence Council ( HVO ) attacked Mostar using artillery , mortars , heavy weapons and small arms .
During the trial against general Tihomir Blaškić ( later convicted of war crimes ) , Ivica Mlivončić , Croatian columnist in Slobodna Dalmacija , tried to defend general Blaškić presenting number of claims in his book Zločin s pečatom about alleged genocide against Croats ( most of it unproven or false ) , which was considered by the Trial Chambers as irrelevant for the case .
Another example of America 's attempt with Black Propaganda is that the U.S. paid Iraqis to publish articles written by American troops in their newspapers under the idea that Propaganda are unbiased and real accounts ; this was brought forth by the New York Times in 2005 .
In November 2005 , the Chicago Tribune and the Los Angeles Times , alleged that the United States military had manipulated news reported in Iraqi media in an effort to cast a favorable light on its actions while demoralizing the insurgency .
Propaganda is the deliberate , systematic attempt to shape perceptions , manipulate cognitions , and direct behavior to achieve a response that furthers the desired intent of the propagandist .
Propaganda is a modern phenomenon that emerged from the creation of literate and politically active societies informed by a mass media , where governments increasingly saw the necessity for swaying public opinion in favour of its policies .
A physical quantity ( or `` physical magnitude '' ) is a physical property of a phenomenon , body , or substance , that can be quantified by measurement .
Neither the name of a physical quantity , nor the symbol used to denote Physical quantity , implies a particular choice of unit , though SI units are usually preferred and assumed today due to Physical quantity ease of use and all-round applicability .
The subsidiary units are used for convenience to differentiate between a truly dimensionless quantity ( pure number ) and an angle , which are different measurements .
Energy , space , momentum , torque , position , and length ( just to name a few ) are all found to be experimentally variant in some particular scale and system .
It is currently disputed whether any changes in dimensional physical constants such as G , c , ħ , or ε0 are operationally meaningful ; however , a sufficient change in a dimensionless constant such as α is generally agreed to be something that would definitely be noticed.An important lesson we learn from the way that pure numbers like α define the World is what it really means for worlds to be different .
On December 13 , 2012 , physicists reported the constancy , over space and time , of a basic physical constant of nature that supports the standard model of physics .
The scientists , studying methanol molecules in a distant galaxy , found the change in the proton-to-electron mass ratio μ to be equal to '' ( 0.0 ± 1.0 ) × 10 − 7 at redshift z = 0.89 '' and consistent with `` a null result '' .
Parsley or garden parsley ( Parsley ) is a species of Petroselinum in Parsley Apiaceae , native to the central Mediterranean region ( southern Italy , Algeria and Tunisia ) , naturalized elsewhere in Europe , and widely cultivated as an herb , a spice and a vegetable .
The word `` parsley '' is a merger of the Old English petersilie ( which is identical to the contemporary German word for parsley : Petersilie ) and the Old French peresil , both derived from Medieval Latin petrosilium , from Latin petroselinum , the latinization of the Greek πετροσέλινον ( petroselinon ) , `` rock-parsley '' , from πέτρα ( petra ) , `` rock , stone '' , + σέλινον ( selinon ) , Parsley .
Flat-leaved parsley is preferred by some as it is easier to cultivate , being more tolerant of both rain and sunshine , and has a stronger flavor ( though this is disputed ) , while curly leaf parsley is preferred by others because of Parsley more decorative appearance in garnishing .
Persillade is a mixture of chopped garlic and chopped parsley in French cuisine .
The chromosome number is variable , with 2n counts of 66 , 72 , 84 , and 120 recorded .
Outside of Peppermint native range , areas where peppermint was formerly grown for oil often have an abundance of feral plants , and Peppermint is considered invasive in Australia , the Galápagos Islands , New Zealand , and in the United States in the Great Lakes region , noted since 1843 .
The chemical composition of the essential oil from peppermint ( Mentha x piperita L. ) was analyzed by GC/FID and GC-MS .
Area 51 ( also known as Dreamland , or Groom Lake ) is a remote detachment of Edwards Air Force Base .
The Area 51 base lies within the United States Air Force 's vast Nevada Test and Training Range ( NTTR ) , formerly called the Nellis Air Force Range ( NAFR ) .
Although the facilities at the range are managed by the 99th Air Base Wing at Nellis Air Force Base , the Groom facility appears to be run as an adjunct of the Air Force Materiel Command Air Force Flight Test Center ( AFFTC ) at Edwards Air Force Base in the Mojave Desert , around southwest of Groom , and as such the base is known as Air Force Flight Test Center ( Detachment 3 ) .
The intense secrecy surrounding Area 51 , whose very existence the U.S. government did not even acknowledge until 29 September 1995 , has made it the frequent subject of conspiracy theories and a central component to unidentified flying object ( UFO ) folklore .
Similarly the National Atlas page showing federal lands in Nevada does not distinguish between the Groom block and other parts of the Nellis range .
Although officially declassified , the original film taken by U.S. Corona spy satellite in the 1960s has been altered prior to declassification ; in answer to freedom of information queries , the government responds that these exposures ( which map to Groom and the entire NAFR ) appear to have been destroyed .
Although federal property within Area 51 is exempt from state and local taxes , facilities owned by private contractors are not .
Although most mentions of OXCART 's home base are redacted in this document , as is a map showing the aircraft 's route from there to Okinawa , the redactor appears to have missed one mention : p15 section No. 2 ends `` Three OXCART aircraft and the necessary task force personnel will be deployed from Area 51 to Kadena '' .
It appears that once road traffic reaches the base , vehicles are routed to a large facility where imagery shows a large number of tractor-trailers and other vehicles are parked .
The road then continues to the west , eventually going into the Nevada Test Site , and southward to Mercury , Nevada , a restricted access community some 40 miles to the south-southeast where the road connects to the public highway system at U.S. Route 95 .
On the extreme south end of the station appear to be several high security areas , enclosed by fences and monitored by video cameras on poles .
As part of the project , the director , Richard M. Bissell Jr. , understood that , given the extreme secrecy enveloping the project , the flight test and pilot training programs could not be conducted at Edwards Air Force Base or Lockheed 's Palmdale facility .
As the project began to wind down , and CIA pilot classes finished their training , Watertown became a virtual ghost town .
Their suit , in which they were represented by George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley , alleged they had been present when large quantities of unknown chemicals had been burned in open pits and trenches at Groom .
Secretary of the Air Force Sheila E. Widnall filed a brief that stated that disclosures of the materials present in the air and water near Groom `` can reveal military operational capabilities or the nature and scope of classified operations '' .
This , and similarly tacit wording used in other government communications , is the only formal recognition the U.S. Government has ever given that Groom Lake is more than simply another part of the Nellis complex .
To generate truly random numbers requires precise , accurate , and repeatable system measurements of absolutely non-deterministic processes .
Linux uses , for example , various system timings ( like user keystrokes , I/O , or least-significant digit voltage measurements ) to produce a pool of random numbers .
With the spread of the use of computers , algorithmic pseudorandom number generators replaced random number tables , and `` true '' random number generators ( hardware random number generators ) are used in only a few cases .
A pseudorandom variable is a variable which is created by a deterministic procedure ( often a computer program or subroutine ) which ( generally ) takes random bits as input .
A distribution D over S is ε-pseudorandom against F if for every f in F , the statistical distance between the distributions f ( X ) , where X is sampled from D , and f ( Y ) , where Y is sampled from the uniform distribution on S , is at most ε .
In typical applications , the class F describes a model of computation with bounded resources and one is interested in designing distributions D with certain properties that are pseudorandom against F .
Political correctness ( Political correctness ) is a pejorative term which denotes language , ideas , policies , and behavior aimed at minimizing offense and discrimination against politically , socially or economically disadvantaged groups and , as purported by Political correctness , doing so to an excessive degree .
Historically , Political correctness was a colloquialism used in the early-to-mid 20th century by Communists and Socialists in political debates , referring pejoratively to the Communist `` party line '' , which provided for `` correct '' positions on many matters of politics .
These attempts ( associated with the political left ) led to a backlash from the right , partly against the attempts to change language , and partly against the underlying identity politics Political correctness .
Whilst the label `` politically correct '' has Political correctness particular origins and history , Political correctness only partially overlaps with the history of the phenomenon to which the label is now applied .
Moreover , Andrews said that politically moderate conceptions of the language -- thought relationship suffice to support the `` reasonable deduction ... of cultural change via linguistic change '' reported in the Sex Roles journal article `` Development and Validation of an Instrument to Measure Attitudes Toward Sexist/Nonsexist Language '' ( 2000 ) , by Janet B. Parks and Mary Ann Robinson .
An article by Larry Elder in FrontPage Magazine referred to an incident on Bill Maher 's Politically Incorrect where the term `` white trash '' was used in reference to guests on the Jerry Springer Show and asked ` Why Is It Okay to Say `` White Trash ?
Commenting on this , and citing an instance of the term in a glossy magazine , blogger Ed Driscoll asked `` Why Is `` White Trash '' An Acceptable Phrase In PC America ?
In the Civitas think tank pamphlet , The Retreat of Reason : Political correctness and the Corruption of Public Debate in Modern Britain ( 2006 ) , the British politician Anthony Browne said that `` the most overt racism , sexism and homophobia in Britain is now among the weakest groups , in ethnic minority communities , because their views are rarely challenged , as challenging them equates to oppressing them .
Inayat Bunglawala , media secretary of the Muslim Council of Britain , said that the opinions of Anthony Browne were misleading and ludicrous about the societal realities of the peoples who are contemporary Britain .
The post-structuralist philosopher Julia Kristeva was one of the early proponents of promoting feminism and multiculturalism through analysis of language , arguing ( in the word of the New York Times , 2001 ) `` that it was not enough simply to dissect the structure of language in order to find Political correctness hidden meaning .
Some conservatives argue that the true purpose of `` political correctness '' and multiculturalism is undermining the values of the Western World , attributing both to what Political correctness describe as `` Cultural Marxism '' ( which has only a tenuous link to the Cultural Marxism recognised in mainstream academia ) .
Political correctness often is satirized , for example in the Political correctness Manifesto ( 1992 ) , by Saul Jerushalmy and Rens Zbignieuw X , and Politically Correct Bedtime Stories ( 1994 ) , by James Finn Garner , presenting fairy tales re-written from an exaggerated PC perspective .
The popularity of the South Park cartoon program led to the creation of the term South Park Republican by Andrew Sullivan , and later the book South Park Conservatives by Brian C. Anderson .
Normally a gamete ( sperm or egg ) carries a full set of chromosomes that includes a single copy of each gene , as aneuploidy generally leads to severe genetic disease in the offspring .
But Common wheat is an organism where x and n differ .
All plants and many fungi and algae switch between Ploidy and a diploid state ( which may be polyploid ) , with one of the stages emphasized over the other .
This contrasts with a common situation in plants where chromosome doubling accompanies , or happens soon after hybridization .
In the latter case , these are known as allopolyploids ( or amphidiploids , which are allopolyploids that behave as if Ploidy were normal diploids ) .
There are two types : diploid-triploid mixoploidy , in which some cells have 46 chromosomes and some have 69 , and diploid-tetraploid mixoploidy , in which some cells have 46 and some have 92 chromosomes .
Audio signal processing , sometimes referred to as Audio signal processing , is the intentional alteration of auditory signals , or sound , often through an audio effect or effects unit .
In audio broadcasting , Audio signal processing must Audio unprocessed by reverb and delay is metaphorically referred to as `` dry '' , while processed audio is referred to as `` wet '' .
Macauley also contributed all of the popular Ribald Classics series published between January 1978 and March 1984 .
London 's Daily Telegraph newspaper reported that Hugh Hefner had sold his English Manor house ( next door to the famous Playboy Mansion ) for $ 18 m ( $ 10 m less than the reported asking price ) to another American Daren Metropoulos the President and coowner of Pabst Blue Ribbon .
David Sheff 's interview with John Lennon and Yoko Ono appeared in the January 1981 issue , which was on newsstands at the time of Lennon 's murder ; the interview was later published in book format .
The Louisiana pastor and author L. L. Clover wrote in his 1974 treatise Evil Spirits Intellectualism and Logic that Playboy encouraged young men to view themselves as `` pleasure-seeking individuals for whom sex is fun and women are play things '' .
On January 14 , 2004 , the Ninth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals ruled that Playboy Enterprises Inc. 's ( PEI ) trademark terms `` Playboy '' and `` Playmate '' should be protected in the situation where a user typing `` Playboy '' or `` Playmate '' in a browser search was instead shown advertisements of companies that competed with PEI. ( The decision reversed an earlier district court ruling .
As part of the online presence , Playboy developed a pay web site called the Playboy Cyber Club in 1995 which features online chats , additional pictorials , videos of Playmates and Playboy Cyber Girls that are not featured in Playboy .
The National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped ( NLS ) has published a Braille edition of Playboy since 1970 .
The division between Pennsylvanian and Mississippian comes from North American stratigraphy .
In North America , where the early Carboniferous beds are primarily marine limestones , Pennsylvanian was in the past treated as a full fledged geologic period between the Mississippian and the Permian .
The collapse of the rainforest ecology in the mid Pennsylvanian ( between the Moscovian and the Kasimovian ) removed many amphibian species that did not survive as well in the cooler , drier conditions .
Pennsylvanian is a full fledged geologic period between the Mississippian and the Permian .
In 1905 , Paul Héroult was invited to the United States as a technical adviser to several companies , and in particular to the United States Steel Corporation .
Paul Héroult is a technical adviser to several companies , and in particular to the United States Steel Corporation .
Permian ended with the largest mass extinction in Earth 's history , in which nearly 90 % of marine species and 70 % of terrestrial species died out .
The first modern trees ( conifers , ginkgos and cycads ) appeared in Permian .
In the late Permian , the drying continued although Permian cycled between warm and cool cycles .
Primitive forms of dragonflies ( Odonata ) were the dominant aerial predators and probably dominated terrestrial insect predation as well .
True Odonata appeared in Permian and all are effectively semi-aquatic insects ( aquatic immature stages , and terrestrial adults ) , as are all modern odonates .
Given that a far greater proportion of species and individual organisms became extinct during the former , doubt is cast on the significance of a meteor impact in creating the latter .
The Vernal equinox is currently located in Pisces (constellation) , due south of ω Psc , and , due to precession , slowly drifting below the western fish towards Aquarius .
Pisces (constellation) has many clusters of young stars and the associated nebulae , showing extensive regions of star formation .
Pisces (constellation) is associated with the Roman legend of Venus and Cupid , who escaped the monster Typhon by transforming into fish and tying themselves together with rope .
However the proposal was largely neglected by other astronomers with the exception of Admiral Smyth , who mentioned it in his book The Bedford Catalogue , and Pisces (constellation) is now obsolete .
The Fishes are also associated with the German legend of Antenteh , who owned just a tub and a crude cabin when he met a magical fish .
Wai-ping ( `` Outer Enclosure '' ) was a fence that kept a pig farmer from falling into the marshes and kept the pigs where Pisces (constellation) belonged .
Paul Robeson ( April 9 , 1898 -- January 23 , 1976 ) was an African-American singer and actor who became involved with the Civil Rights Movement .
Due to Paul Robeson decision not to recant Paul Robeson public advocacy of pro-Soviet policies , Paul Robeson was denied a passport by the U.S. State Department , and Paul Robeson income , consequently , plummeted .
The coach , Foster Sanford , decided Paul Robeson had overcome the provocation and announced that Paul Robeson had made the team .
Paul Robeson joined the debate team and sang off-campus for spending money , and on-campus with the Glee Club informally , as membership required attending all-white mixers .
Robeson took sole responsibility to care for Paul Robeson , shuttling between Rutgers and Somerville .
Paul Jr. was born while Paul Robeson and Brown toured Europe .
Robeson stated the best way to diminish the oppression African-Americans faced was for Paul Robeson artistic work to be an example of what `` men of Paul Robeson colour '' could accomplish rather than to `` be a propagandist and make speeches and write articles about what they call the Colour Question '' .
Thereabout , Paul Robeson former football coach , Foster Sanford , advised Paul Robeson that divorcing Essie and marrying Ashcroft would do irreparable damage to Paul Robeson reputation .
His acting in `` Jones '' was well received and `` Jones '' became the first film starring an African American .
Paul Robeson `` sudden interest '' in African history and its impact on culture coincided with Paul Robeson essay `` Paul Robeson Want to be African '' , wherein Paul Robeson wrote of Paul Robeson desire to embrace Paul Robeson ancestry .
and subsequently Paul Robeson appeared in the pro-labor play Plant in the Sun by Herbert Marshall .
A book reviewed in early 1950 as `` the most complete record on college football '' failed to list Paul Robeson as ever having played on the Rutgers team and as ever having been an All-American .
However when Robeson met with State and asked why Paul Robeson was denied a passport , Paul Robeson was told that `` Paul Robeson frequent criticism of the treatment of blacks in the United States should not be aired in foreign countries '' .
In a symbolic act of defiance against the travel ban , labor unions in the US and Canada organized a concert at the International Peace Arch on the border between Washington state and the Canadian province of British Columbia .
Paul Robeson embarked on a two-month concert tour of Australia and New Zealand in October 1960 , with Essie , primarily to generate money , at the behest of Bill Morrow .
After appearing at the Brisbane Festival Hall , they went to Auckland where Robeson reaffirmed Paul Robeson support of Marxism , denounced the inequality faced by the Māori and efforts to denigrate their culture .
Paul Robeson attacked the view of the Aborigines as unsophisticated and uncultured , and declared , `` there 's no such thing as a backward '' human being , there is only a society which says they are backward '' .
Three days later , under Soviet medical care , Paul Robeson told Paul Robeson son that Paul Robeson felt extreme paranoia , thought that the walls of the room were moving and , overcome by a powerful sense of emptiness and depression , tried to take Paul Robeson own life .
Paul Jr. believed that Paul Robeson father 's health problems stemmed from attempts by CIA and MI5 to `` neutralize '' Paul Robeson father .
In 1963 , Robeson returned to the US and for the remainder of Paul Robeson life lived in seclusion .
Paul Robeson was contacted by both Bayard Rustin and James L. Farmer , Jr. about the possibility of becoming involved with the mainstream of the Civil Rights movement .
Numerous celebrations were held in honor of Robeson over the next several years , including at public arenas that had previously shunned Paul Robeson , but Paul Robeson saw few visitors aside from close friends and gave few statements apart from messages to support current civil rights and international movements , feeling that Paul Robeson record `` spoke for itself '' .
At a Carnegie Hall tribute to mark Paul Robeson 75th birthday in 1973 , Paul Robeson was unable to attend , but a taped message from Paul Robeson was played that said : `` Though Paul Robeson have not been able to be active for several years , Paul Robeson want you to know that Paul Robeson am the same Paul , dedicated as ever to the worldwide cause of humanity for freedom , peace and brotherhood '' .
Robeson left Australia as a respected , albeit controversial , figure and Paul Robeson support for Aboriginal rights had a profound effect in Australia over the next decade .
Notice how the 20 × and 5 × speedup do n't have much effect on the overall speed when P1 ( 11 % ) is not sped up , and P4 ( 48 % ) is sped up only 1.6 times .
In the case of parallelization , Amdahl 's law states that if P is the proportion of a program that can be made parallel ( i.e. , benefit from parallelization ) , and ( 1 − P ) is the proportion that can not be parallelized ( remains serial ) , then the maximum speedup that can be achieved by using N processors is .
The moving of Polaris towards , and in the future away from , the celestial pole , is due to the precession of the equinoxes .
One description of Parabola involves a point ( the focus ) and a line ( the directrix ) .
A parabola is a graph of a quadratic function , such as The line perpendicular to the directrix and passing through the focus ( that is , the line that splits Parabola through the middle ) is called the `` axis of symmetry '' .
The distance between the vertex and the focus , measured along the axis of symmetry , is the `` focal length '' .
The `` latus rectum '' is the chord of the parabola which is parallel to the directrix and passes through the focus .
Squaring both sides and simplifying produces as the equation of Parabola .
By interchanging the roles of x and y one obtains the corresponding equation of Parabola with a vertical axis as Parabola can be generalized to allow the vertex to be at a point other than the origin by defining the vertex as the point ( h , k ) .
More generally , Parabola is a curve in the Cartesian plane defined by an irreducible equation -- one that does not factor as a product of two not necessarily distinct linear equations -- of the general conic form with the parabola restriction that where all of the coefficients are real and where A and C are not both zero .
The reducible case , also called the degenerate case , gives a pair of parallel lines , possibly real , possibly imaginary , and possibly coinciding with each other .
Let us call the lengths of the line segments and x , and the length of y. ( The triangle BPM is isosceles .
If a line is perpendicular to the plane of Parabola and passes through the centre , V , of the horizontal cross-section of the cone passing through P , then the point where this line intersects the plane of Parabola is the focus of Parabola , which is marked F on the diagram .
In the following equations and are the coordinates of the vertex , , of Parabola and is the distance from the vertex to the focus and the vertex to the directrix .
In polar coordinates , a parabola with the focus at the origin and the directrix parallel to the y-axis , is given by the equation where l is the semilatus rectum : the distance from the focus to the parabola Parabola , measured along a line perpendicular to the axis of symmetry .
Note that this equals the perpendicular distance from the focus to the directrix , and is twice the focal length , which is the distance from the focus to the vertex of Parabola .
Construction and definitions The point E is an arbitrary point on Parabola , with coordinates The focus is F , the vertex is A ( the origin ) , and the line FA ( the y-axis ) is the axis of symmetry .
Deductions Measured along the axis of symmetry , the vertex , A , is equidistant from the focus , F , and from the directrix .
Therefore , since B is the midpoint of FC , triangles FEB and CEB are congruent ( three sides ) , which implies that the angles marked are equal .
This means that a ray of light which enters the parabola and arrives at E travelling parallel to the axis of symmetry will be reflected by the line BE so Parabola travels along the line EF , as shown in red in the diagram ( assuming that the lines can somehow reflect light ) .
The slopes of our tangents are and , so so Thus the y-coordinate of the intersection point of the tangents is given by This is also the equation of the directrix of this parabola , so the two perpendicular tangents intersect on the directrix .
Put terms over a common denominator where is the discriminant , Thus , the vertex is at point Since the axis of symmetry of this parabola is parallel with the y-axis , the x-coordinates of the focus and the vertex are equal .
Measured along the axis of symmetry , the vertex is the midpoint between the focus and the directrix .
If a point X is located on a parabola which has focal length and if is the perpendicular distance from X to the axis of symmetry of the parabola , then the lengths of arcs of the parabola which terminate at X can be calculated from and as follows , assuming Parabola are all expressed in the same units .
This quantity , , is the length of the arc between X and the vertex of Parabola .
In algebraic geometry , Parabola is generalized by the rational normal curves , which have coordinates the standard parabola is the case and the case is known as the twisted cubic .
In the theory of quadratic forms , Parabola is the graph of the quadratic form ( or other scalings ) , while the elliptic paraboloid is the graph of the positive-definite quadratic form ( or scalings ) and the hyperbolic paraboloid is the graph of the indefinite quadratic form Generalizations to more variables yield further such objects .
In nature , approximations of parabolae and paraboloids ( such as catenary curves ) are found in many diverse situations .
This is a separate and more fundamental issue than the regress argument found in discussions on justification of knowledge .
The Cambrian Period witnessed the most rapid and widespread diversification of life in Earth 's history , known as the Cambrian explosion , in which most modern phyla first appeared .
Towards the end of the era , large , sophisticated reptiles were dominant and the first modern plants ( conifers ) appeared .
In North America , the era began with deep sedimentary basins along the eastern , southeastern , and western sides of the continent , while the interior was dry land .
During the early part of the era , the area of exposed Precambrian , or shield , rocks in central Canada were eroding , supplying sediment to the basins from the interior .
In North america carboniferous is not generally used instead the time is divided between Mississippian and Pensylvanian period because of differences in the sedimentary rock deposited in this time .
The Ordovician and Silurian periods were warm greenhouse periods , with the highest sea levels of the Paleozoic ( 200 m above today 's ) ; the warm climate was interrupted only by a cool period , the Early Paleozoic Icehouse , culminating in the Hirnantian glaciation .
However , as if to offset this trend , Gondwana moved south with considerable speed , so that , in Ordovician time , most of West Gondwana ( Africa and South America ) lay directly over the South Pole .
However , Baltica ( Northern Europe and Russia ) and Laurentia ( eastern North America and Greenland ) remained in the tropical zone , while China and Australia lay in waters which were at least temperate .
The slow merger of Baltica and Laurentia , and the northward movement of bits and pieces of Gondwana created numerous new regions of relatively warm , shallow sea floor .
The Lopingian is associated with falling sea levels , increased carbon dioxide and general climatic deterioration , culminating in the devastation of the Permian extinction .
While macroscopic plant life appeared early in the Paleozoic and possibly late in the Neoproterozoic , Paleozoic mostly remained aquatic until sometime in the Silurian and Devonian , when Paleozoic began to transition onto dry land .
The Indus region , which covers most of Pakistan , was the site of several successive ancient cultures including the Neolithic Mehrgarh and the Bronze Age Indus Valley Civilisation ( 2800 -- 1800 BCE ) at Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro .
The Rai Dynasty ( 489 -- 632 CE ) of Sindh , at Pakistan zenith , ruled this region and the surrounding territories .
In June 1947 , the nationalist leaders of British India -- including Jawaharlal Nehru and Abul Kalam Azad representing the Congress , Jinnah representing the Muslim League , and Master Tara Singh representing the Sikhs -- agreed to the proposed terms of transfer of power and independence .
Zia died in a plane crash in 1988 , and Benazir Bhutto , daughter of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto , was elected as the first female Prime Minister of Pakistan .
She was followed by Nawaz Sharif , and over the next decade the two leaders fought for power , alternating in office while Pakistan situation worsened ; economic indicators fell sharply , in contrast to the 1980s .
Military tension between the two countries in the Kargil district led to the Kargil War of 1999 , after which General Pervez Musharraf took over through a bloodless coup d'état and assumed vast executive powers .
Since the Sino-Indian War of 1962 , Pakistan closest strategic , military and economic ally has been China .
Pakistan is the second largest Muslim country ( after Indonesia ) , and Pakistan status as a declared nuclear power , being the only Islamic nation to have that status , plays a part in Pakistan international role .
The government of Pakistan exercises de facto jurisdiction over the western parts of the disputed Kashmir region , organised into the separate political entities Azad Kashmir and Gilgit -- Baltistan ( formerly Northern Areas ) .
The Chairman joint chiefs ( the current chairman is General Shameem Wynne ) is the highest principle officer in the armed forces , and the chief military adviser to the government though the chairman has no authority over the three branches of armed forces .
The Kashmir conflict is a territorial dispute between India and Pakistan over the Kashmir region , the most northwesterly region of South Asia .
Furthermore , 50 % of Pakistanis live in towns of 5,000 people or more .
English is the official language of Pakistan , used in official business , government , and legal contracts ; the local dialect is known as Pakistani English .
As of 1995 , there were more than 1.6 million Bengalis , 650,000 Afghans , 200,000 Burmese , 2,320 Iranians and Filipinos and hundreds of Nepalese , Sri Lankans and Indians living in Karachi .
After the Quetta blast in 2013 , there were country-wide protests by Shia Muslims supported by fellow Sunni Muslims calling an end to sectarian violence in Pakistan and urging for Shia-Sunni unity in Pakistan .
Sufism , a mystical Islamic tradition , has a long history and a large popular following in Pakistan .
Contemporary Islamic fundamentalists criticize Pakistan popular character , which in their view , does not accurately reflect the teachings and practice of the Prophet and his companions .
After Islam , Hinduism and Christianity are the largest religions in Pakistan , each with 2,800,000 ( 1.6 % ) adherents in 2005 .
There is a Roman Catholic community in Karachi which was established by Goan and Tamil migrants when Karachi 's infrastructure was being developed by the British during colonial administration between World War I and World War II .
Pakistanis wairclothes range from exquisite colors and designs to the type of fabric ( silk , chiffon , cotton , etc. ) .
There is a small indigenous film industry based in Lahore and Peshawar , known as Lollywood .
Chapati , a thin flat bread made from wheat , is a staple food , served with curry , meat , vegetables and lentils .
The western and northern half of China is a region of sunken basins ( Gobi , Taklamakan ) , rolling plateaus , and towering massifs , including a portion of the highest tableland on earth ( Tibetan Plateau ) with lower agricultural possibilities and thus , far less populated .
Mountains ( 33 % ) , plateaus ( 26 % ) and hills ( 10 % ) account for nearly 70 % of the country 's land surface .
Most of the cry 's arable land and population are based in lowland plains ( 12 % ) and basins ( 19 % ) , though some of the greatest basins are filled with deserts .
Northwest of the Tibetan Plateau , between the northern slope of Kunlun and southern slope of Tian Shan , is the vast Tarim Basin of Xinjiang , which contains the Taklamakan Desert .
To east , the basin descends into the Hami-Turpan Depression of eastern Xinjiang , where the dried lake bed of Lake Ayding at -154 m below sea level , is the lowest surface point in China and the third lowest in the world .
Further north , the Inner Mongolian Plateau , between 900-1 ,500 m in elevation , arcs north up the spine of China and becomes the Greater Hinggan Range of Northeast China .
The plateau is 1,000-1 ,500 m in elevation and is filled with loess , a yellowish , loose soil that travels easily in the wind .
The Heilongjiang ( Heilong or Black Dragon River ) flows for 3,101 kilometers in Northeast China and an additional 1,249 kilometers in Russia , where it is known as the Amur .
The mining and industrial center of Tangshan , 165 km east of Beijing , was leveled by an earthquake in July 1976 , it was believed to be the largest earthquake of the 20th century by death toll .
The Sichuan Basin , due to Geography of China mild , humid climate and long growing season , produces a variety of crops .
The drainage area of the Pearl River and Geography of China associated network of rivers occupies much of the region to the south .
Starting from the Chinese central plain , the former heart of the Han populations , the Han people expanded militarily and then demographically toward the Loess Plateau , the Sichuan Basin , and the Southern hills ( as defined by the map on the left ) , not without resistance from local populations .
In addition , a parcel of land was ceded from Guangdong to Guangxi to grant the latter immediate access to the Gulf of Tonkin , while Hainan was split from Guangdong in 1988 and Chongqing from Sichuan in 1997 .
In the northeast , border friction with the Soviet Union produced a tense situation in remote regions of Inner Mongolia and Heilongjiang along segments of the Argun River , Amur River , and Ussuri River .
Although the border issue remained unresolved as of late 1987 , China and the Soviet Union agreed to consider the northeastern sector first .
Eastward from Bhutan and north of the Brahmaputra River ( Yarlung Zangbo Jiang ) lies a large area controlled and administered by India but claimed by the Chinese .
Conversely , the Siberian anticyclone dominates during winter , bringing cold and ( comparatively ) dry conditions .
The northern extremities of both Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia have a subarctic climate ; in contrast , most of Hainan Island and parts of the extreme southern fringes of Yunnan has a tropical climate .
Most of coastal and western central China , including Beijing , are antipodal to Argentina and Chile .
Committees to oversee birth control activities were established at all administrative levels and in various collective enterprises .
The UN Fund for Population Activities and the International Planned Parenthood Federation were generally supportive of Demographics of the People's Republic of China family planning program .
China is the most populated country in the world and Demographics of the People's Republic of China national population density ( 137/km2 ) is similar to those of Switzerland and the Czech Republic .
The overall population density of China conceals major regional variations , the western and northern part have a few million people , while eastern half has about 1.3 billion .
The seven major mutually unintelligible Chinese dialects , which are considered by some to be different languages of the Chinese language family , and by some others to be dialects of the Chinese language .
The de facto spoken standard in Hong Kong and Macao is Cantonese , although officially Demographics of the People's Republic of China is just the Chinese language , not specifying which spoken form is standard .
On 1 January 1979 , the PRC Government officially adopted the hanyu pinyin system for spelling Chinese names and places in mainland China in Roman letters .
Thus making the relation between Government and religions was not smooth in the past .
In recent years , the Chinese government has opened up to religion , especially traditional religions such as Mahayana Buddhism , Taoism and Confucianism because the Government also continued to emphasize the role of religion in building a `` Socialist Harmonious Society , '' which was a positive development with regard to the Government 's respect for religious freedom .
According to the 1993 edition of The Atlas of Religion , the number of atheists in China is between 10 % and 14 % .
Some of the ethnic minorities of China practice their indigenous religions , for example Dongbaism is the traditional religion of the Nakhi people , Moism that of the Zhuang people , and Ruism that of the Qiang people .
According to Phil Zuckerman , `` low response rates , '' `` non-random samples , '' and `` adverse political/cultural climates '' are all persistent problems in establishing accurate numbers of religious believers in a given locality .
Many Chinese belief systems have concepts of a sacred and sometimes spiritual natural world yet do not always invoke a concept of personal god ( with the exception of Heaven worship ) .
Only two Christian organizations , a Catholic church without ties to the Holy See in Rome and the `` Three-Self-Patriotic '' Protestant church , are sanctioned by the PRC Government .
Economic reform during the 1980s and the devolution of much central government decision making , combined with the strong interest of local Communist Party officials in enriching themselves , has made Politics of the People's Republic of China increasingly difficult for the central government to assert Politics of the People's Republic of China authority .
Political power has become much less personal and more institutionally based than Politics of the People's Republic of China was during the first forty years of the PRC .
As the social , cultural and political as well as economic consequences of market reform become increasingly manifest , tensions between the old -- the way of the comrade -- and the new -- the way of the citizen -- are sharpening .
The introduction of the market economy means that economic institutions now exist in which the party has limited or no power .
A figure that represents the Communist Party of China , colloquially termed the Party chief or the Party Secretary , acts as the policy maker .
Prominent examples of greater autonomy are seen in the provinces of Guangdong and Zhejiang , where local leaders do little to adhere to the strict standards issued by the Central Government , especially economic policy .
Politics of the People's Republic of China system of autonomous regions and autonomous prefectures within provinces are formally intended to provide for greater autonomy by the ethnic group majority that inhabits the region .
The 1954 PRC Constitution provides that the State Chairman ( President ) directs the armed forces and made the State Chairman the chair of the Defense Commission ( the Defense Commission is an advisory body , Politics of the People's Republic of China does not lead the armed forces ) .
This is a unique Chinese system that ensures the joint leadership of the Communist Party and the state over the armed forces .
The support that the Communist Party of China has among the Chinese population in general is unclear because national elections are mostly CPC dominated , as there are no opposition political parties and independent candidates elected into office are n't organised well enough to realistically challenge CPC rule .
Coordination between the eight registered minor parties and the Communist Party of China is done through the Chinese People 's Political Consultative Conference which meets annually in Beijing in March at about the same time that the National People 's Congress meets .
Since 1979 , when the drive to establish a functioning legal system began , more than 301 laws and regulations , most of them in the economic area , have been promulgated .
The use of mediation committees - informed groups of citizens who resolve about 90 % of the PRC 's civil disputes and some minor criminal cases at no cost to the parties - is one innovative device .
The criminal law amendments abolished the crime of `` counter-revolutionary '' activity ( and references to `` counter-revolutionaries '' disappeared with the passing of the 1999 Constitutional amendment ) , while criminal procedures reforms encouraged establishment of a more transparent , adversarial trial process .
The PRC Constitution and laws provide for fundamental human rights , including due process , although those laws also provide for limitations of those rights .
The PRC is officially a multi-ethnic state providing ethnic autonomy in the form of autonomous administrative entities in accordance with Section 6 of Chapter 3 ( Articles 111-122 ) of the Constitution of Politics of the People's Republic of China Republic of China , and with more detail under the Law of Politics of the People's Republic of China Republic of China on Regional National Autonomy .
In the 1950s existing facilities were repaired , and , with Soviet assistance , considerable progress was made toward establishing a long-distance telephone wire network connecting Beijing to provincial-level capitals .
By 1952 the principal telecommunications network centered on Beijing , and links to all large cities had finally been established .
The network had ground stations in Beijing , Urumqi , Hohhot , Lhasa , and Guangzhou , which also were linked to an Intelsat satellite over the Indian Ocean .
These included on-line information retrieval terminals in Beijing , Changsha , and Baotou that enabled international telecommunications networks to retrieve news and scientific , technical , economic , and cultural information from international sources .
High-speed newspaper-page-facsimile equipment and Chinese character - code translation equipment were used on a large scale .
See : Telecommunications industry in China China imported Telecommunications in the People's Republic of China first mobile phone telecommunication facilities in 1987 and Telecommunications in the People's Republic of China took a decade for the number of subscribers to reach 10 million .
China continues to develop Telecommunications in the People's Republic of China telecommunications infrastructure , and is partnering with foreign providers to expand Telecommunications in the People's Republic of China global reach ; 3 of China 's 6 major telecommunications operators are part of an international consortium which , in December 2006 , signed an agreement with Verizon Business to build the first next-generation optical cable system directly linking the United States and China .
See : China National Radio ; China Radio International See also : Internet in the People 's Republic of China ; Internet censorship in China ; China Next Generation Internet ; Chinese Domain Name Consortium ; Online gaming in China China 's number of Internet users or netizens topped 137 million by the end of 2006 , an increase of 23.4 % from a year before and 162 million by June 2007 , making China the second largest Internet user after the United States .
Current cable links between China and the US run through Japan .
The physical state and comprehensiveness of Transport in the People's Republic of China transport infrastructure tend to vary widely by geography .
Another 352 locomotives are owned by local railroads and 604 operated by joint-venture railways .
National railway freight cars numbered 622,284 and passenger coaches 52,130 .
Because of Transport in the People's Republic of China limited capital , overburdened infrastructure , and need to continuously modernize , the national rail system , which is controlled by the Ministry of Railways through a network of regional divisions , operates on an austere budget .
The Chinese project was a Sino-German joint venture , 38-km long route between downtown Shanghai and the Pudong airport opened in 2003 .
In 1992 , a new large-scale rail project was launched in Transport in the People's Republic of China , called the `` New Silk Road '' or `` Eurasian Continental Bridge '' project .
Transport in the People's Republic of China also has established rail links between seaports and interior export-processing zones .
Linking Lhasa and Shigatse together in Tibet , the construction of a extension line of the Qingzang railway started in 2009 with completion expected by 2014 .
Transport in the People's Republic of China also has a links with Kazakhstan , Mongolia and Russia , which all use the gauge and with Vietnam , where the gauge is still in use .
The Trans-Siberian Railway , which crosses Russia , has a branch that sweeps down from Ulan-Ude , across Mongolia , and on to Beijing .
As India has been extending Transport in the People's Republic of China railway near the Nathu La pass with China , and China has plans to extend the Qinghai-Tibet railway to near Transport in the People's Republic of China border with Nathu La , a petition was set up to promote the idea that both countries could link up their respective proportions for direct train services between the two countries .
Commuter rail systems , characteristic of large European and North American cities , are uncommon in Transport in the People's Republic of China .
Highways ( totaling 130,000 km ) were critical to China 's economic growth as Transport in the People's Republic of China worked to mitigate a poor distribution network and authorities sought to spur economic activity directly .
The importance of highways and motor vehicles , which carry 13.5 % of cargo and 49.1 % of passengers , was growing rapidly in the mid-2000s .
The Shanghai trolleybus system , which remains in operation , opened in 1914 and is the longest-lived trolleybus system in the world .
Air China owns 17.5 % of Cathay Pacific ( second largest shareholder ) and the Civil Aviation Administration of China ( CAAC ) , an administrative agency of the State Council , owns majority and controlling stakes in China Southern Airlines , China Eastern Airlines , and Air China .
The major ports , including river ports accessible by ocean-going ships , are Beihai , Dalian , Dandong , Fuzhou , Guangzhou , Haikou , Hankou , Huangpu , Jiujiang , Lianyungang , Nanjing , Nantong , Ningbo , Qingdao , Qinhuangdao , Rizhao , Sanya , Shanghai , Shantou , Shenzhen , Tianjin , Weihai , Wenzhou , Xiamen , Xingang , Yangzhou , Yantai , and Zhanjiang .
Of these , 1,700 ships of or more totaled 20.4 million tons .
As of 2007 , Transport in the People's Republic of China merchant fleet had 1,775 ships ( or over ) / by type : barge carrier 3 , bulk carrier 415 , cargo ship 689 , carrier 3 , chemical tanker 62 , combination ore/oil 2 , container ship 157 , liquefied gas 35 , passenger 8 , passenger/cargo ship 84 , oil tanker 250 , refrigerated cargo ship 33 , roll-on/roll-off 9 , specialized tanker 8 , vehicle carrier 17 .
As of 2006 , Transport in the People's Republic of China had of gas pipelines , of oil pipelines , and for refined products .
As a major oil and gas consumer , Transport in the People's Republic of China is searching for more external supples .
While China invested roughly 9 % of Transport in the People's Republic of China GDP on infrastructure in the 1990s and 2000s , most emerging economies invested only 2 % to 5 % of Transport in the People's Republic of China GDP .
After the Beijing government assumed the China seat in the United Nations in 1971 ( and the ROC government was expelled ) and became increasingly more significant as a global player , most nations switched diplomatic relations from the Republic of China to the People 's Republic of China .
By the late 1950s , relations between China and the Soviet Union had become so divisive that in 1960 , the Soviets unilaterally withdrew their advisers from China .
In response , China worked vigorously to expand Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China relations with foreign countries , and by late 1990 , had reestablished normal relations with almost all nations .
US State Department Tier rating : Tier 2 Watch List - `` China failed to show evidence of increasing efforts to address transnational trafficking ; while the government provides reasonable protection to internal victims of trafficking , protection for Chinese and foreign victims of transnational trafficking remain inadequate '' .
Zhou Enlai made a ten-country tour to Africa between December 1963 and January 1964 .
Relations at that time were often reflective of China 's foreign policy in general : China `` began to cultivate ties and offer ... economic , technical and military support to African countries and liberation movements in an effort to encourage wars of national liberation and revolution as part of an international united front against both superpower '' .
China originally had close ties with the anti-apartheid and liberation movement , African National Congress ( ANC ) , in South Africa , but as China 's relations with the Soviet Union worsened and the ANC moved closer to the Soviet Union , China shifted away from the ANC towards the Pan-Africanist Congress .
The ministerial meeting , Forum on China-Africa Cooperation ( FOCAC ) , held in Beijing in October 2000 was the first collective dialogue between the PRC and African nations .
In 1999 , Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China was US$ 6.5 billion and in 2000 , US$ 10 billion .
In 2010 , trade between Africa and China was worth US$ 114 billion and in 2011 , US$ 166.3 billion .
There are an estimated 800 Chinese corporations doing business in Africa , most of which are private companies investing in the infrastructure , energy and banking sectors .
Unconditional and low-rate credit lines ( rates at 1.5 % over 15 years to 20 years ) have taken the place of the more restricted and conditional Western loans .
Military equipment worth $ 142 million was sold to African countries between 1955 and 1977 .
In 2004 , China deployed around 1,500 soldiers under the UN umbrella , dispatched between Liberia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo .
Historically , little is known about early African immigration to China , although there is no doubt and much consensus that the human species was originally from Africa .
Places dubbed ` Little Africa ' and ` Chocolate city ' are increasingly receiving new immigrants , mostly Nigerians .
Estimates vary by source though Xinhua , China 's official news agency , states that there are no less than 750,000 Chinese nationals working or living in Africa .
Due to the low prices of Chinese-made weaponry and military equipment , an increasing number of African countries shifted their source of supply from traditional providers such as Russia to China .
Relations between China and Robert Mugabe 's regime in Zimbabwe have also been the focus of criticism by a few Western countries .
The Shanghai Cooperation Organization , of which China is a founding member , is also becoming increasingly important in Central Asian security and politics .
Although the Tang Dynasty and the Abbasid Caliphate had fought at Talas , on June 11 , 758 , an Abbasid embassy arrived at Chang ` an simultaneously with the Uyghur Turks in order to pay tribute .
A Chinese captured at Talas , Du Huan , was brought to Baghdad and toured throughout the caliphate .
Every seventh day the king ( Caliph ) sits on high , and speaks to those below saying , ' Those who are killed by the enemy will be born in heaven above ; those who slay the enemy will receive happiness ' .
An Arab envoy presented horses and a girdle to the Chinese in 713 , but he refused to pay homage to the Emperor , said , he said `` In my country we only bow to God never to a Prince '' .
There was a controversy between the Arab ambassadors and Uyghur Khaganate Ambassadors over who should go first into the Chinese court , Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China were then guided by the Master of Ceremonies into two different entrances .
Three Da shi ambassadors arrived at the Tang court in 198 A.D. A war which was raging between the Arabs and Tibetans from 785-804 benefited the Chinese .
Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China trunk is notched with a hatchet , upon which the resin flows out , and , when hardened , turns into incense , which is gathered and made into lumps .
This is the reason why Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China is commonly collected at and known as a product of Sanfoqi '' .
Ruxiang was the Chinese name for frankincense , and Dashi the Chinese name for Arabia .
`` Similar histories , common objectives and wide-ranging shared interests have enabled the two sides to strengthen cooperation , '' he said .
Hu noted at the time that the formation of the forum was a continuation of the traditional friendship between China and the Arab world and an important move to promote bilateral ties under new circumstances .
while the 3rd SAFC is set to be held in Bahrain 2008 One of the major Joint Projects involves the Environment , the AL and PROC signed the Executive Program of the Joint Communiqué between the Environmental Cooperation for 2008 -- 2009 The League of Arab States and the Government of People 's Republic of China signed the Joint Communiqué on Environmental Cooperation ( referred to as the Joint Communiqué ) on June 1 , 2006 .
Pakistan and China , as per common knowledge and perspective , are arguably strong allies and trade and contacts have steadily increased over the years .
Despite lingering suspicions remaining from the 1962 Sino-Indian War and continuing boundary disputes over Aksai Chin and Arunachal Pradesh , Sino-Indian relations have improved gradually since 1988 .
The relationship between China and Japan has been strained at times by Japan 's refusal to acknowledge its wartime past to the satisfaction of China .
China 's transformation into a major economic power in the 21st century has led to an increase of foreign investments in the bamboo network , a network of overseas Chinese businesses operating in the markets of Southeast Asia that share common family and cultural ties .
The end of the long-held animosity between Moscow and Beijing was marked by the visit to China by Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev in 1989 .
During a visit to Brazil , Argentina , Chile , and Cuba in November 2004 , Chinese President Hu Jintao announced US$ 100 billion worth of investment over the next decade .
China is training increasing numbers of Latin American and Caribbean region military personnel , mainly due to a three-year old U.S. law surrounding the International Criminal Court that has led to a sharp decline in U.S.-run training programs for the region .
Diplomatic relations between Barbados and the People 's Republic of China were established on 30 May 1977 .
Cuban -- Chinese relations are the interstate relations between China and Cuba .
Bilateral trade between China and Cuba in 2005 totaled US$ 777 million , of which US$ 560 million were Chinese exports to Cuba .
The People 's Republic of China maintains diplomatic relations with eight countries in Oceania : Australia , Fiji , the Federated States of Micronesia , New Zealand , Papua New Guinea , Samoa , Tonga and Vanuatu whilst Republic of China ( Taiwan ) , has diplomatic relations with the other six .
After all , despite the differences in size , population , wealth , and influence between China and islands in the region , the Chinese have literally rolled out the red carpet for Pacific leaders .
Reuters reports that , according to the Institute 's findings , `` China 's chequebook diplomacy in the South Pacific and secrecy over its aid programme to small island nations is having a destabilising impact on the region '' , due to `` concerns that dollar diplomacy was influencing local politics '' .
The delegation also met Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao , who spoke of increased `` economic and trade cooperation '' ; Xinhua reported that the Pacific Island legislators `` expressed appreciation for China 's assistance '' and `` reiterated their countries ' adherence to the one-China policy '' .
In April 2011 , the Lowy Institute issued a new report noting that China , in its approach to the Pacific , had been `` shifting from grant aid to soft loans '' , which were `` leading to increasing problems of indebtedness '' and `` making Pacific governments vulnerable to political pressure from Beijing '' .
He indicated that the volume of trade between the PRC and Pacific Island countries had increased by about 50 % between 2009 and 2010 , reaching $ 2.46 billion .
This resulted in the Majuro Declaration , in which Taiwan 's six Pacific allies re-stated their recognition of the ROC 's sovereignty , and promised to support the ROC 's attempts to join the United Nations .
In October , Taiwan cancelled a scheduled summit between Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China and its Pacific Island allies .
In June 2009 , the Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced that President Ma would `` attend a ... leadership summit between Taiwan and its South Pacific allies '' in autumn .
In 2004 , Rudd , who at the time was Shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs , had delivered a speech in Beijing entitled `` Australia and China : A Strong and Stable Partnership for the 21st Century '' .
In February 2008 , Australia reportedly `` chastised Taiwan for Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China renewed push for independence '' and `` reiterated Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China support for a one-China policy '' .
Among the Pacific Island countries , Fiji was , in 2010 , the second largest importer of PRC exports , after Papua New Guinea , and had a trade deficit of A$ 127m in Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China trade relations with China .
Fiji 's foreign policy under Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase ( 2000 -- 2006 ) was ( in the latter 's own words ) to `` look north '' - i.e. , strengthen its relations with Asia in general and China in particular .
Bainimarama , for his part , re-affirmed his country 's recognition of the One China policy , and , as reported by Fiji Village , `` thanked the Chinese government for fully recognizing Fiji 's sovereignty and adopting a policy of non-interference in its domestic affairs '' .
In June 2009 , the Fiji Democracy and Freedom Movement , an organisation founded in Australia to campaign for the restoration of democracy in Fiji , sent a petition to the Chinese embassy in Canberra , asking China to `` withdraw support for the military regime '' .
Despite close relations between Fiji and the PRC , Taiwan provides continuous free medical assistance to the country .
Relations between China and Kiribati then became a contentious political issue within Kiribati .
Tong 's brother and main political opponent , Harry Tong , responded by accusing Taiwan of having too much influence on Kiribati , and notably of influencing the country 's clergy .
Given that Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China has already changed Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China foreign policy twice , Nauru remains the focus of diplomatic competition between Beijing and Taipei .
A `` former Australian diplomat with close knowledge of politics in Nauru '' stated that Nauruan President Marcus Stephen , Foreign Minister Kieren Keke and former President Ludwig Scotty , among others , had all accepted `` under the counter '' funding from Taiwan .
the PRC diplomatic representative to New Zealand , Zhang Limin , is also accredited to New Zealand 's associated territories , the Cook Islands and , since 2008 , Niue .
On 29 September 2008 , New Zealand 's delegate in United Nations openly praised the improving relations between the two governments of Beijing and Taipei .
In July 2003 , PNG Governor General Sir Silas Atopare visited the PRC , re-affirmed his country 's adherence to the One China policy , and , according to a statement published by the PRC 's embassy , `` thanked the government and the people of China for their commitment in providing aid to PNG 's development '' .
In March 2008 , following unrest in Tibet , the speaker of the Samoan Fono ( legislative assembly ) , Tolofuaivalelei Falemoe Leiataua , stated that foreign leaders should not interfere with China as Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China deals with `` internal affairs '' , and that Foreign relations of the People's Republic of China should not meet the Dalai Lama .
Since 2011 , the Republic of China 's ambassador to the Solomons is Laurie Chan , a Solomon Islands national of Chinese ethnic background , and a former Solomon Islands Minister of Foreign Affairs who supported his country 's continued relations with Taiwan .
Joses Tuhanuku , President of the Solomon Islands Labour Party , stated that the election `` has been corrupted by Taiwan and business houses owned by Solomon Islanders of Chinese origin '' .
Alexander Downer is now in Taipei and telling the Taiwanese how to run their relations with the Solomon Islands .
... Relations between Taiwan and the Solomon Islands are none of this yesterday man 's business .
... All the resources that the nation has contributed are project-oriented and have generated substantial positive effects on the local economy and on society .
Dr Tarcisius Tara Kabutaulaka , of the University of Hawaii , commented that Taiwan funded constituency development programmes in the Solomons , and that Members of Parliament were thus unlikely to support any severing of diplomatic relations with the ROC .
In 2001 , Tonga 's Chinese community ( of about three or four thousand people ) was hit by a wave of about a hundred racist assaults .
Nikolai Trubetzkoy in Grundzüge der Phonologie ( 1939 ) defines phonology as `` the study of sound pertaining to the system of language '' , as opposed to phonetics , which is `` the study of sound pertaining to the act of speech '' ( the distinction between language and speech being basically Saussure 's distinction between langue and parole ) .
The Polish scholar Jan Baudouin de Courtenay ( together with his former student Mikołaj Kruszewski ) introduced the concept of the phoneme in 1876 , and his work , though often unacknowledged , is considered to be the starting point of modern phonology .
Natural phonology was a theory based on the publications of Phonology proponent David Stampe in 1969 and ( more explicitly ) in 1979 .
In a course at the LSA summer institute in 1991 , Alan Prince and Paul Smolensky developed optimality theory -- an overall architecture for phonology according to which languages choose a pronunciation of a word that best satisfies a list of constraints which is ordered by importance : a lower-ranked constraint can be violated when the violation is necessary in order to obey a higher-ranked constraint .
Broadly speaking , government phonology ( or Phonology descendant , strict-CV phonology ) has a greater following in the United Kingdom , whereas optimality theory is predominant in North America .
The presence or absence of minimal pairs , as mentioned above , is a frequently used criterion for deciding whether two sounds should be assigned to the same phoneme .
Since the early 1960s , theoretical linguists have moved away from the traditional concept of a phoneme , preferring to consider basic units at a more abstract level , as a component of morphemes ; these units can be called morphophonemes , and analysis using this approach is called morphophonology .
In the trick at Mecone , a sacrificial meal marking the `` settling of accounts '' between mortals and immortals , Prometheus played Prometheus against Zeus ( 545 -- 557 ) .
Angelo Casanova , Professor of Greek Literature at the University of Florence , finds in Prometheus a reflection of an ancient , pre-Hesiodic trickster-figure , who served to account for the mixture of good and bad in human life , and whose fashioning of humanity from clay was an Eastern motif familiar in Enuma Elish ; as an opponent of Zeus he was an analogue of the Titans , and like them was punished .
At the center of the drama are the results of Prometheus ' theft of fire and his current punishment by Zeus ; the playwright 's dependence on the Hesiodic source material is clear , though Prometheus Bound also includes a number of changes to the received tradition .
Instead , Aeschylus includes this one oblique allusion to Pandora and her jar that contained Hope ( 252 ) : `` Prometheus caused blind hopes to live in the hearts of men '' .
In Hesiod , the story of Prometheus ( and , by extension , of Pandora ) serves to reinforce the theodicy of Zeus : he is a wise and just ruler of the universe , while Prometheus is to blame for humanity 's unenviable existence .
The most significant detail added to the myth found in , e.g. , Sappho , Plato , Aesop and Ovid -- was the central role of Prometheus in the creation of the human race .
Although perhaps made explicit in the Prometheia , later authors such as Hyginus , the Bibliotheca , and Quintus of Smyrna would confirm that Prometheus warned Zeus not to marry the sea nymph Thetis .
In Georgian mythology , Amirani is a culture hero who challenged the chief god , and like Prometheus was chained on the Caucasian mountains where birds would eat his organs .
According to the second , Prometheus , goaded by the pain of the tearing beaks , pressed himself deeper and deeper into the rock until he became one with Prometheus .
However , as these amino acids are necessary for protein and neurotransmitter synthesis , Phe buildup hinders the development of the brain , causing mental retardation .
Here , the term `` parallax '' is the angle or semi-angle of inclination between two sight-lines to the star .
Stellar parallax created by the relative motion between the Earth and a star , can be seen , in the Copernican model , as arising from the orbit of the Earth around the Sun : the star only appears to move relative to more distant objects in the sky .
Stellar parallax is most often measured using annual parallax , defined as the difference in position of a star as seen from the Earth and Sun , i. e. the angle subtended at a star by the mean radius of the Earth 's orbit around the Sun .
The nearest star to the Sun ( and thus the star with Parallax ) , Proxima Centauri , has a parallax of 0.7687 ± 0.0003 arcsec .
In 1989 , the satellite Hipparcos was launched primarily for obtaining parallaxes and proper motions of nearby stars , increasing the reach of the method tenfold .
Distance measurement by parallax is a special case of the principle of triangulation , which states that one can solve for all the sides and angles in a network of triangles if , in addition to all the angles in the network , the length of at least one side has been measured .
Lunar parallax ( often short for lunar horizontal parallax or lunar equatorial horizontal parallax ) , is a special case of ( diurnal ) parallax : the Moon , being the nearest celestial body , has by far the largest maximum parallax of any celestial body , Parallax can exceed 1 degree .
Instead of ` near star ' , read ` Moon ' , and instead of taking the circle at the bottom of the diagram to represent the size of the Earth 's orbit around the Sun , take Parallax to be the size of the Earth 's globe , and of a circle around the Earth 's surface .
A full shadow of the Earth on the Moon has an apparent radius of curvature equal to the difference between the apparent radii of the Earth and the Sun as seen from the Moon .
When found by triangulation , this is referred to as Parallax , the difference in position of the Sun as seen from the Earth 's centre and a point one Earth radius away , i. e. , the angle subtended at the Sun by the Earth 's mean radius .
Both the opposition of 1901 and that of 1930/1931 were used for this purpose , the calculations of the latter determination being completed by Astronomer Royal Sir Harold Spencer Jones .
Measurements made by viewing the position of some marker relative to something to be measured are subject to Parallax if the marker is some distance away from the object of measurement and not viewed from the correct position .
Measurements of Parallax are used to deduce the height of the buildings , provided that flying height and baseline distances are known .
In such cameras , the eye sees the subject through different optics ( the viewfinder , or a second lens ) than the one through which the photo is taken .
On sights fitted to small arms , bows in archery , etc. the distance between the sighting mechanism and the weapon 's bore or axis can introduce significant errors when firing at close range , particularly when firing at small targets .
In optical instruments such as telescopes , microscopes , or in telescopic sights used on small arms and theodolites , the error occurs when the optics are not precisely focused : the reticle will appear to move with respect to the object focused on if one moves one 's head sideways in front of the eyepiece .
In contemporary writing parallax can also be the same story , or a similar story from approximately the same time line , from one book told from a different perspective in another book .
`` The philosophical twist to be added ( to parallax ) , of course , is that the observed distance is not simply subjective , since Parallax ' is seen from two different stances , or points of view .
After 24 hours , the chance of recovery declines rapidly , since with continued pressure , the spinal cord tissue deteriorates and dies .
This is a microscopic piece of disc material that breaks off and becomes lodged in a spinal artery .
If a clot is large enough to block one or both femoral arteries , there may be hind leg paralysis because the major source of blood flow to the hind leg is blocked .
After Schary was fired by MGM in a major shake-up , Kubrick and Harris managed to interest Kirk Douglas in a script version that Kubrick had done with Calder Willingham .
Gene Siskel , on a section of Siskel And Ebert 's At The Movies show regarding Stanley Kubrick films , declared Paths of Glory to be one of the all-time great films and `` almost '' as good as Kubrick 's Dr. Strangelove .
In October and November 2004 Paths of Glory was shown at the London Film Festival by the British Film Institute .
Throughout the 1950s and 1960s , a bewildering variety of particles were found in scattering experiments .
The Standard Model also contains 24 fundamental particles , ( 12 particles and their associated anti-particles ) , which are the constituents of all matter .
The primary goal , which is pursued in several distinct ways , is to find and understand what Particle physics may lie beyond the standard model .
The Large Hadron Collider ( LHC ) was completed in 2008 to help continue the search for the Higgs boson , supersymmetric particles , and other new physics .
Physical geography ( also known as geosystems or physiography ) is one of the two major subfields of geography .
Several works among the best known during this long period could be cited as an example , from Strabo ( Geography ) , Eratosthenes ( Geography ) or Dionisio Periegetes ( Periegesis Oiceumene ) in the Ancient Age to the Alexander von Humboldt ( Cosmos ) in the century XIX , in which geography is regarded as a physical and natural science , of course , through the work Summa de Geografía of Martín Fernández de Enciso from the early sixteenth century , which is indicated for the first time the New World .
This fostered the creation of geography departments in the universities of the colonial powers and the birth and development of national geographical societies , thus giving rise to the process identified by Horacio Capel as the institutionalization of geography .
Geographical factors such as rivers and runoff begins to create the V-shaped valleys between the mountains ( the stage called `` youth '' ) .
Finally , everything comes to what is a plain flat plain at the lowest elevation possible ( called `` baseline '' ) This plain was called by Davis ' `` peneplain '' meaning `` almost plain '' Then the rejuvenation occurs and there is another mountain lift and the cycle continues .
In a valley , Plain is enclosed on two sides but in other cases Plain may be delineated by a complete or partial ring of hills , by mountains or cliffs .
Plains in many areas are important for agriculture because where the soils were deposited as sediments Plain may be deep and fertile , and the flatness facilitates mechanization of crop production ; or because Plain support grasslands which provide good grazing for livestock .
Peter Altenberg ( 9 March 1859 , Vienna -- 8 January 1919 , Vienna ) was a writer and poet from Vienna , Austria .
Altenberg , like many writers and artists , was constantly short of money , but Peter Altenberg was adept at making friends , cultivating patrons , and convincing others to pay for Peter Altenberg meals , Peter Altenberg champagne , even Peter Altenberg rent , with which Peter Altenberg was frequently late .
The Palestinian people ( , Palestinian people ` b al-Filasṭīnī ) , also referred to as Palestinians ( , al-Filasṭīniyyūn ) , are the modern descendants of the peoples who have lived in Palestine over the centuries , and who today are largely culturally and linguistically Arab due to Arabization of the region .
About 2.6 million of the diaspora population live in neighboring Jordan where they make up approximately half the population , 1.5 million live between Syria and Lebanon , a quarter of a million in Saudi Arabia , with Chile 's half a million representing the largest concentration outside the Arab world .
Genetic analysis suggests that a majority of the Muslims of Palestine , inclusive of Arab citizens of Israel , are descendants of Christians , Jews and other earlier inhabitants of the southern Levant whose core may reach back to prehistoric times .
A study of high-resolution haplotypes demonstrated that a substantial portion of Y chromosomes of Israeli Jews ( 70 % ) and of Palestinian Muslim Arabs ( 82 % ) belonged to the same chromosome pool .
Acculturation , independent from conversion to Islam , resulted in Palestinian people being linguistically and culturally Arab .
The Palestinian National Authority , officially established as a result of the Oslo Accords , is an interim administrative body nominally responsible for governance in Palestinian population centers in the West Bank and Gaza Strip .
Biblical Hebrew 's cognate word Plištim , usually translated Philistines , does not distinguish them and the other Sea Peoples , who settled in Palestine around 1100 BCE .
During the British Mandate of Palestine , the term `` Palestinian '' was used to refer to all people residing there , regardless of religion or ethnicity , and those granted citizenship by the Mandatory authorities were granted `` Palestinian citizenship '' .
Other examples include the use of the term Palestine Regiment to refer to the Jewish Infantry Brigade Group of the British Army during World War II , and the term `` Palestinian Talmud '' , which is an alternative name of the Jerusalem Talmud , used mainly in academic sources .
Following the 1948 establishment of the State of Israel , the use and application of the terms `` Palestine '' and `` Palestinian '' by and to Palestinian Jews largely dropped from use .
Note that `` Arab nationals '' is not religious-specific , and it implicitly includes not only the Arabic-speaking Muslims of Palestine , but also the Arabic-speaking Christians of Palestine and other religious communities of Palestine who were at that time Arabic-speakers , such as the Samaritans and Druze .
Some argue that Palestinian people can be traced as far back as the 1834 Arab revolt in Palestine ( or even as early as the 17th century ) , while others argue that Palestinian people did n't emerge until after the Mandate Palestine period .
Starting in May 1834 the rebels took many cities , among them Jerusalem , Hebron and Nablus and Ibrahim Pasha 's army was deployed , defeating the last rebels on 4 August in Hebron .
Rashid Khalidi argues that the modern national identity of Palestinians has Palestinian people roots in nationalist discourses that emerged among the peoples of the Ottoman empire in the late 19th century that sharpened following the demarcation of modern nation-state boundaries in the Middle East after World War I. `` The fact that Palestinian nationalism developed later than Zionism and indeed in response to it does not in any way diminish the legitimacy of Palestinian nationalism or make it less valid than Zionism .
Tamir Sorek , a sociologist , submits that , `` Although a distinct Palestinian identity can be traced back at least to the middle of the nineteenth century ( Kimmerling and Migdal 1993 ; Khalidi 1997b ) , or even to the seventeenth century ( Gerber 1998 ) , it was not until after World War I that a broad range of optional political affiliations became relevant for the Arabs of Palestine '' .
The historical record continued to reveal an interplay between `` Arab '' and `` Palestinian '' identities and nationalism .
With the fall of the Ottoman Empire and the French conquest of Syria , the formerly pan-Syrianist mayor of Jerusalem , Musa Qasim Pasha al-Husayni , said `` Now , after the recent events in Damascus , we have to effect a complete change in our plans here .
Conflict between Palestinian nationalists and various types of pan-Arabists continued during the British Mandate , but the latter became increasingly marginalized .
Article 22 of The Covenant of the League of Nations conferred an international legal status upon the territories and people which had ceased to be under the sovereignty of the Ottoman Empire as part of a ` sacred trust of civilization ' .
The Mandate document divided the population into Jewish and non-Jewish , and Britain , the Mandatory Power considered the Palestinian population to be comprisd of religious , not national , groups .
After the 1948 Arab-Israeli war and the accompanying Palestinian exodus , known to Palestinians as Al Nakba ( the `` catastrophe '' ) , there was a hiatus in Palestinian political activity .
The formal annexation of the West Bank by Jordan in 1950 , and the subsequent granting of Palestinian people Palestinian Arab residents Jordanian citizenship , further stunted the growth of a Palestinian national identity by integrating them into Jordanian society .
The traditional Palestinian elite who had dominated negotiations with the British and the Zionists in the Mandate , and who were largely held responsible for the loss of Palestine , were replaced by these new movements whose recruits generally came from poor to middle-class backgrounds and were often students or recent graduates of universities in Cairo , Beirut and Damascus .
Concurrently , among Palestinian people in the West Bank and Gaza Strip , a new ideological theme , known as sumud , represented the Palestinian political strategy popularly adopted from 1967 onward .
A strategy more passive than that adopted by the Palestinian fedayeen , sumud provided an important subtext to the narrative of the fighters , `` in symbolizing continuity and connections with the land , with peasantry and a rural way of life '' .
In a speech to the Knesset , Deputy Premier and Foreign Minister Yigal Allon outlined the government 's view that : ` No one can expect us to recognize the terrorist organization called the PLO as representing Palestinian people -- because it does not .
Kuwait 's expulsion policy , which led to this exodus , was a response to alignment of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat and the PLO with Saddam Hussein , who had earlier invaded Kuwait .
The expiration of this term without the recognition by Israel of the Palestinian State and without the effective termination of the occupation was followed by the Second Intifada in 2000 .
Israel , having recognized Palestinian people as a separate people , is obliged to promote and respect this right in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations .
Since the Islamic conquest in the 7th century , Palestine , a then Hellenized location , came under the influence of an Arabic-speaking Kurdish Muslim dynasty known as the Ayyubids , whose culture and language through the process of Arabization was adopted by Palestinian people .
`` Throughout history a great diversity of peoples has moved into the region and made Palestine their homeland : Canaanites , Jebusites , Philistines from Crete , Anatolian and Lydian Greeks , Hebrews , Amorites , Edomites , Nabataeans , Arameans , Romans , Arabs , and Western European Crusaders , to name a few .
Others , such as Ancient Egyptians , Hittites , Persians , Babylonians , and the Mongol raids of the late 1200s , were historical ` events ' whose successive occupations were as ravaging as the effects of major earthquakes ... Like shooting stars , the various cultures shine for a brief moment before they fade out of official historical and cultural records of Palestine .
George Antonius , founder of modern Arab nationalist history , wrote in his seminal 1938 book The Arab Awakening : '' The Arabs ' connection with Palestine goes back uninterruptedly to the earliest historic times , for the term ` Arab ' in Palestine denotes nowadays not merely the incomers from the Arabian Peninsula who occupied the country in the seventh century , but also the older populations who intermarried with their conquerors , acquired their speech , customs and ways of thought and became permanently arabised .
In the early and more conservative reconstruction of history , Palestinian people might be said that this merely confirms the historic enmity between Israel and Palestinian people enemies .
This is another irony in modern politics : the Palestinians in truth are blood brothers or cousins of the modern Israelis '' .
For example , Ber Borochov , one of the key ideological architects of Socialist Zionism , claimed as early as 1905 that , `` The Fellahin in Eretz-Israel are the descendants of remnants of the Hebrew agricultural community , '' believing them to be descendants of the ancient Hebrew and Canaanite residents ` together with a small admixture of Arab blood ' '' .
David Ben-Gurion and Yitzhak Ben Zvi , later becoming Israel 's first Prime Minister and second President , respectively , tried to establish in a 1918 paper written in Yiddish that Palestinian peasants and their mode of life were living historical testimonies to Israelite practices in the biblical period .
He therefore , proposed that this historical wrong be corrected , by embracing Palestinian people as their own and proposed the opening of Hebrew schools for Palestinian Arab Muslims to teach them Arabic , Hebrew and universal culture .
Tsvi Misinai , an Israeli researcher , entrepreneur and proponent of a to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , asserts that nearly 90 % of all Palestinians living within Israel and the occupied territories ( including Israel 's Arab citizens and Negev Bedouin ) are descended from the Jewish Israelite peasantry that remained on the land , after the others , mostly city dwellers , were exiled or left .
Claims emanating from certain circles within Palestinian society and their supporters , proposing that Palestinian people have direct ancestral connections to the ancient Canaanites , without an intermediate Israelite link , has been an issue of contention within the context of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
Some Palestinian scholars , like Zakariyya Muhammad , have criticized pro-Palestinian arguments based on Canaanite lineage , or what he calls `` Canaanite ideology '' .
By assigning Palestinian people pursuit to the desire to predate Jewish national claims , he describes Canaanism as a `` losing ideology '' , whether or not it is factual , `` when used to manage our conflict with the Zionist movement '' since Canaanism `` concedes a priori the central thesis of Zionism .
In Jewish populations J1 has a rate of around 15 % , with haplogroup J2 ( M172 ) ( of eight sub-Haplogroups ) being almost twice as common as J1 among Jews ( In the absence of a comprehensive census including all Palestinian diaspora populations , and those that have remained within what was British Mandate Palestine , exact population figures are difficult to determine .
DellaPergola estimated the Palestinian population of the West Bank and Gaza at the end of 2005 as 3.33 million , or 3.57 million if East Jerusalem is included .
Schafik Jorge Handal , Salvadoran politician and former guerrilla leader , was the son of Palestinian immigrants .
In 2006 , there were 4,255,120 Palestinian people registered as refugees with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) .
The 993,818 Palestinian refugees in the Gaza Strip and 705,207 Palestinian refugees in the West Bank , who hail from towns and villages now located within the borders of Israel , are included in these figures .
David McDowall writes that , '' ... a yearning for Palestine permeates the whole refugee community and is most ardently espoused by the younger refugees , for whom home exists only in the imagination '' .
Cross-cultural syncretism between Christian and Islamic symbols and figures in religious practice was common .
Popular feast days , like Thursday of the Dead , were celebrated by both Muslims and Christians and shared prophets and saints include Jonah , who is worshipped in Halhul as both a Biblical and Islamic prophet , and St. George , who is known in Arabic as el Khader .
Ali Qleibo , a Palestinian anthropologist , states that this built evidence constitutes `` an architectural testimony to Christian/Moslem Palestinian religious sensibility and Palestinian people roots in ancient Semitic religions '' .
The concessions granted to France and other Western powers by the Ottoman Sultanate in the aftermath of the Crimean War had a significant impact on contemporary Palestinian religious cultural identity .
Demographic issue in the Palestinian Territory gain importance at the political , social and economic levels , the population dimension is one of the main determinants of Palestinian choices toward sustainable development , as the limited natural resources and political choices .
On the other hand , Jericho and Al Aghwar Governorate has the lowest rate of population at the end of 2005 at 1.1 % .
This study was criticised by demographer Sergio DellaPergola , who estimated 3.33 million Palestinian people in the West Bank and Gaza Strip combined at the end of 2005 .
Palestinian Arabic has three primary sub-variations , Rural , Urban , and Bedouin , with the pronunciation of the Qāf serving as a shibboleth to distinguish between the three main Palestinian sub-dialects : The urban variety notes a Q sound , while the rural variety ( spoken in the villages around major cities ) have a K for the Q .
The Bedouin variety of Palestine ( spoken mainly in the southern region and along the Jordan valley ) use a G instead of Q. Barbara McKean Parmenter has noted that the Arabs of Palestine have been credited with the preservation of the indigenous Semitic place names for many sites mentioned in the Bible that were documented by the American archaeologist Edward Robinson in the early 20th century .
Palestinian people who live or work in Israel generally can also speak Modern Hebrew , as do some who live in the West Bank and Gaza Strip .
The contributions of the ` nativist ' ethnographies produced by Tawfiq Canaan and other Palestinian writers and published in The Journal of the Palestine Oriental Society ( 1920 -- 1948 ) were driven by the concern that the `` native culture of Palestine '' , and in particular peasant society , was being undermined by the forces of modernity .
Salim Tamari writes that : `` Implicit in their scholarship ( and made explicit by Canaan himself ) was another theme , namely that the peasants of Palestine represent -- through their folk norms ... the living heritage of all the accumulated ancient cultures that had appeared in Palestine ( principally the Canaanite , Philistine , Hebraic , Nabatean , Syrio-Aramaic and Arab ) '' .
Entrées that are eaten throughout the Palestinian Territories , include waraq al - ` inib -- boiled grape leaves wrapped around cooked rice and ground lamb .
The work of these poets was largely unknown to the wider Arab world for years because of the lack of diplomatic relations between Israel and Arab governments .
The shawal , a style popular in the West Bank and Jordan before the First Intifada , probably evolved from one of the many welfare embroidery projects in the refugee camps .
The majority of conflicts narrated in the tales describe women torn between duty and desire .
However , some say the Hikaye is in decline due to the influence of television and other mass media .
The term `` Physicist '' was coined by English philosopher , priest , and historian of science William Whewell in 1840 , to denote a cultivator of physics .
Robert Boyle ( 1627 - 1691 ) : formulated Boyle 's law , which describes the inversely proportional relationship between the absolute pressure and volume of a gas ( if the temperature is kept constant within a closed system ) , wrote The Sceptical Chymist ( seen as cornerstone book in the field of chemistry ) , regarded as the first modern chemist , one of the founders of modern chemistry .
Peter Nilson ( 17 October 1937 -- 8 March 1998 ) was a Swedish astronomer and novelist .
A patent ( or ) is a set of exclusive rights granted by a sovereign state to an inventor or Patent assignee for a limited period of time , in exchange for the public disclosure of the invention .
Patent can generally only be enforced through civil lawsuits ( for example , for Patent , by an action for patent infringement in a United States federal court ) , although some countries ( such as France and Austria ) have criminal penalties for wanton infringement .
Patent licensing agreements are contracts in which the patent owner ( the licensor ) agrees to grant the licensee the right to make , use , sell , and/or import the claimed invention , usually in return for a royalty or other compensation .
Conformity with the TRIPs agreement is a requirement of admission to the WTO and so compliance is seen by many nations as important .
While this term does not confer legal protection , and a patent can not be enforced until granted , Patent serves to provide warning to potential infringers that if the patent is issued , Patent may be liable for damages .
The number of Office actions and responses that may occur vary from country to country , but eventually a final rejection is sent by Patent , or the patent application is granted , which after the payment of additional fees , leads to an issued , enforceable patent .
In some jurisdictions , there are opportunities for third parties to bring an opposition proceeding between grant and issuance , or post-issuance .
The European Patent Office estimated in 2005 that the average cost of obtaining a European patent ( via a Euro-direct application , i.e. not based on a PCT application ) and maintaining the patent for a 10 year term was around $ 32,000 .
On the other hand , some argue that because of low number of patents going into litigation , increasing quality of patents at patent prosecution stage increases overall legal costs associated with Patent , and that current USPTO policy is a reasonable compromise between full trial on examination stage on one hand , and pure registration without examination , on the other hand .
Enforcement of Patent - especially patents perceived as being overly broad - by patent trolls , has brought criticism of the patent system , though some commentators suggest that patent trolls are not bad for the patent system at all but instead realign market participant incentives , make patents more liquid , and clear the patent market .
Other groups are investigating how social inclusion and equitable distribution of research and development findings can be obtained within the existing intellectual property framework , although these efforts have received less exposure .
Accurate facts about the life of Pythagoras are so few , and most information concerning Pythagoras is of so late a date , and so untrustworthy , that it is impossible to provide more than a vague outline of Pythagoras life .
These writers , late as they are , were among the best sources from whom Porphyry and Iamblichus drew , besides the legendary accounts and their own inventions .
Herodotus , Isocrates , and other early writers all agree that Pythagoras was born on Samos , the Greek island in the eastern Aegean , and we also learn that Pythagoras was the son of Mnesarchus .
Pythagoras name led Pythagoras to be associated with Pythian Apollo ; Aristippus explained Pythagoras name by saying , `` He spoke ( agor - ) the truth no less than did the Pythian ( Pyth - ) , '' and Iamblichus tells the story that the Pythia prophesied that Pythagoras pregnant mother would give birth to a man supremely beautiful , wise , and beneficial to humankind .
Plutarch asserted in Pythagoras book On Isis and Osiris that during Pythagoras visit to Egypt , Pythagoras received instruction from the Egyptian priest Oenuphis of Heliopolis .
Such an aristocratic and exclusive club could easily have made many people in Croton jealous and hostile , and this seems to have led to its destruction .
Still the Pythagoreans continued to exist as a sect , the members of which kept up among themselves their religious observances and scientific pursuits , while individuals , as in the case of Archytas , acquired now and then great political influence .
Some say that Pythagoras perished in the temple with Pythagoras disciples , others that Pythagoras fled first to Tarentum , and that , being driven from there , Pythagoras escaped to Metapontum , and there starved Pythagoras to death .
This legend has since proven to be false by virtue of the fact that these ratios are only relevant to string length ( such as the string of a monochord ) , and not to hammer weight .
Aristotle described Pythagoras as a wonder-worker and somewhat of a supernatural figure , attributing to Pythagoras such aspects as a golden thigh , which was a sign of divinity .
Both Iamblichus and Porphyry give detailed accounts of the organisation of the school , although the primary interest of both writers is not historical accuracy , but rather to present Pythagoras as a divine figure , sent by the gods to benefit humankind .
Pythagoras , or in a broader sense , the Pythagoreans , allegedly exercised an important influence on the work of Plato .
Bertrand Russell , in Pythagoras A History of Western Philosophy , contended that the influence of Pythagoras on Plato and others was so great that Pythagoras should be considered the most influential of all Western philosophers .
This had a great effect on future esoteric traditions , such as Freemasonry and Rosicrucianism , both of which were scientific/mystical groups dedicated to the study of mathematics/geometry and logical reasoning as opposed to religious dogma .
This `` sharing '' has caused a pseudo-religious cult or series of cults to grow up around the layouts and the use of the drug .
Up to the point where The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch begins , New York City-based Perky Pat ( or P.P. ) Layouts , Inc. , has held a monopoly on this product , as well as on the illegal trade in the drug CAN-D which makes the shared hallucinations possible .
Ayahuasca , first described academically in the early 1950s by Harvard ethnobotanist Richard Evans Schultes , who found it employed for divinatory and healing purposes by the native peoples of Amazonian Peru , is known by a number of different names ( see below ) .
While many indigenous Amazonian people say Ayahuasca received the instructions directly from plants and plant spirits , researchers have devised a number of alternative theories to explain Ayahuasca discovery .
There are many reports of miraculous physical as well as emotional and spiritual healing resulting from the use of ayahuasca .
Harmine and harmaline are selective and reversible inhibitors of monoamine oxidase A ( MAO-A ) , while tetrahydroharmine is a weak serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SRI ) .
This inhibition of MAO-A allows DMT to diffuse unmetabolized past the membranes in the stomach and small intestine , and eventually cross the blood -- brain barrier ( which , by Ayahuasca , requires no MAO-A inhibition ) to activate receptor sites in the brain .
There are several varieties of caapi , often known as different `` colors '' , with varying effects , potencies , and uses .
In modern Europe and North America , ayahuasca analogues are often prepared using non-traditional plants which contain the same alkaloids .
A visitor who wishes to become a `` dietero '' or `` dietera '' , that is , a male or female apprentice-shaman learning the way of the teacher plants , undergoes a rigorous initiation .
Since then groups that are not affiliated to the Santo Daime have used ayahuasca , and a number of different ` styles ' have been developed , such as the non-religious approach developed by Daniel Waterman in 2001 , popularly termed Ayahuasca Open Style ( AOS ) .
There are also the investigations of the human pharmacology of ayahuasca done by Jordi Riba and the work of Rafael G. dos Santos .
The cultivation of plants from which psychotropic substances are obtained is not controlled by the Vienna Convention ... Neither the crown ( fruit , mescal button ) of the Peyote cactus nor the roots of the plant Mimosa hostilis nor Psilocybe mushrooms themselves are included in Schedule 1 , but only their respective principles , mescaline , DMT and psilocin .
A court case allowing the União do Vegetal to import and use the tea for religious purposes in the United States , Gonzales v. O Centro Espirita Beneficente Uniao do Vegetal , was heard by the U.S. Supreme Court on November 1 , 2005 ; the decision , released February 21 , 2006 , allows the UDV to use the tea in its ceremonies pursuant to the Religious Freedom Restoration Act .
Later that year the PTO issued a decision rejecting the patent , on the basis that the petitioners ' arguments that the plant was not `` distinctive or novel '' were valid .
However , the decision did not acknowledge the argument that the plant 's religious or cultural values prohibited a patent .
The title is a reference to the line uttered by Hamlet to Horatio after being visited by his father 's ghost and learning that his uncle Claudius murdered his father ; in short , a shocking supernatural event that fundamentally alters the way Hamlet perceives the state and the universe ( `` The time is out of joint ; O cursed spite !
Intriguing little pieces of the real 1959 turn up : a magazine article on Marilyn Monroe , a telephone book with non-operational exchanges listed and radios hidden away in someone else 's house .
Few other characters notice these or experience similar anomalies ; the sole exception is Gumm 's supposed brother-in-law , Victor `` Vic '' Nielson , in whom he confides .
( The requirement that narcotics agents remain anonymous , to avoid collusion and other forms of corruption , becomes a critical plot point late in A Scanner Darkly .
Through a series of drug and psychological tests , Arctor 's superiors at work discover that his addiction has made him incapable of performing his job as a narcotics agent .
This speech , `` The Android and the Human '' , served as the basis for many of the recurring themes and motifs in A Scanner Darkly .
Presumably , this was a source for the vividness and accuracy with which the clinic in A Scanner Darkly is portrayed .
Del Rey suggested the timeline change to 1994 and helped to emphasize the more futuristic elements of A Scanner Darkly , such as the `` scramble suit '' employed by Fred ( which , incidentally , emerged from one of the mystical experiences ) .
When Runciter , Chip , and the others reach Mick 's moon base , they discover that the assignment is a trap , presumably set by the company 's main adversary Ray Hollis , who leads an organization of psychics .
The spray can is only a form that Ubik takes to make Ubik easy for people to understand Ubik and use Ubik .
The screenplay was published as Ubik : The Screenplay in 1985 ( ISBN 978-0911169065 ) and again in 2008 ( ISBN 9781596061699 ) .
Dick 's former wife Tessa claims that the published screenplay `` has been heavily edited , and others have added material to the screenplay that Phil wrote '' , though she suggests that `` film producers really ought to take a look at the author 's own screenplay before embarking upon their journey of interpretation '' .
Tommy Pallotta , who produced the film adaptation of Dick 's A Scanner Darkly , said in a July 2006 interview that he `` still has the option for Ubik and will be looking to make a live action feature from Ubik '' .
takes place in the year 1992 , after World War Terminus and Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? radioactive fallout have ruined most of Earth .
The story is set in and around the San Francisco Bay Area , one of the last places affected by the radioactive dust , especially on the peninsula to the south .
Androids are used only in the off-world colonies -- the only colonies mentioned in Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? are on Mars , although humans attempted to colonize the star Proxima -- yet many escape to Earth , fleeing the psychological isolation and chattel slavery .
Although made of biological materials and physically all but indistinguishable from humans , Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? are considered to be pieces of machinery .
He and his friends , Radio Free Albemuth turns out , were just a decoy set up by VALIS to detour the government from stopping a much more popular A-List band from releasing a similar record with a better-established recording company .
In the biblical verse , , attributed to 450 BC , it is believed that Nehemiah , an official serving King Artaxerxes I of Persia , asked leave to travel to Judea ; the king granted leave and gave him a letter `` to the governors beyond the river '' requesting safe passage for him as he travelled through their lands .
It is considered unlikely that the term `` passport '' is derived from sea ports , but rather from a medieval document that was required to pass through the gate ( or `` porte '' ) of a city wall or to pass through a territory .
Such is the case of King Constantine II of Greece who has travelled on diplomatic passports for Denmark ( the ancestral home of his royal house ) and Spain ( the adopted country of his sister Queen Sofia ) .
Passport-like travel document issued by the People 's Republic of China to Chinese citizens from the Mainland in order to travel to Hong Kong or Macau only .
In some cases the goal of the fantasy passport is to make a political statement or to denote membership in the organization .
The standard passport format includes the name of the issuing country on Passport cover , a national symbol , a description of the document ( e.g. , passport , official passport , diplomatic passport ) , and -- if Passport is biometric -- the biometric passport symbol .
This is followed by a data page , on which there is information about the bearer and the issuing authority , although passports of some European Union member states provide that information on the inside back cover .
Passport often , though not always , contain a message , usually near the front , requesting that Passport bearer be allowed to pass freely , and further requesting that , in the event of need , the bearer be granted assistance .
The Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia , being the representative in Australia of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second , requests all those whom Passport may concern to allow the bearer , an Australian Citizen , to pass freely without let or hindrance and to afford him or her every assistance and protection of which he or she may stand in need .
The English message in a Dutch passport is : In the name of His Majesty the King of the Netherlands , Prince of Orange-Nassau , etc. etc. etc , the Minister of Foreign Affairs requests all authorities of friendly powers to allow the bearer of the present passport to pass freely without let or hindrance and to afford the bearer every assistance and protection which may be necessary .
In Central America , the members of the CA-4 Treaty ( Guatemala , El Salvador , Honduras , and Nicaragua ) adopted a common-design passport , called the Central American passport .
Although the design had been in use by Nicaragua and El Salvador since the mid-1990s , it became the norm for the CA-4 in January 2006 .
As of 2006 , the Nicaraguan passport , which is the model for the passports of the three other countries , is issued in Spanish , French , and English .
The Central People 's Government of the People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) authorizes by law Passport Special Administrative Regions ( Hong Kong and Macau ) to issue passports to their permanent residents with Chinese nationality under the one country , two systems arrangement .
Visa policies imposed by foreign authorities on Hong Kong and Macau permanent residents holding such passports are different from those holding ordinary passports of the People 's Republic of China .
In Finland , male citizens aged 18 -- 30 years must prove that they have completed , or are exempt from , the obligatory military service when applying for a Finnish passport .
In some circumstances an expired passport is not required to be surrendered or invalidated ( for example , if Passport contains an unexpired visa ) .
Hong Kong and Macau each maintains border controls at all points of entry , including at the border with mainland China .
A ` Home Return Permit ' is required for Chinese citizens domiciled in Hong Kong and Macau to enter and exit mainland China .
Mainland China residents visiting Hong Kong or Macau are required to hold an Exit-entry Permit for Travelling to and from Hong Kong and Macau ( 往来港澳通行证 or 双程证 ) issued by mainland authorities , along with an endorsement , also issued by mainland authorities , on the Exit-entry Permit which needs to be applied each time ( similar to a visa ) when visiting the SARs .
The grey-cover Visit Permit to Hong Kong is , technically speaking , a restricted passport and is valid for 7 years .
Between 2004 and mid-2011 , the Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs deemed that bearers of Passport passports could not travel to Iraq due to the security threats in that country .
South Korea does not consider travel within the Korean peninsula ( between South Korean and North Korean administrations ) to be international travel , as South Korea 's constitution claims the entire Korean peninsula as Passport territory .
Between Russia and some former Soviet republics , rather than requiring a standard passport , participating countries may accept a national identity document ( e.g. an internal passport ) as well .
The Nordic Passport Union meant that Nordic citizens ( Denmark , including the Faroe Islands , Finland , Iceland , Norway and Sweden ) need ( on the paper ) no identity document to visit these countries ( not Greenland or Svalbard ) .
This exemption from passport control is part of a treaty between Australia and Papua New Guinea negotiated when PNG became independent from Australia in 1975 .
Many Central American and South American nationals can travel within their respective regional economic zones , such as Mercosur and the Andean Community of Nations , or on a bilateral basis ( e.g. , between Chile and Peru , between Brazil and Chile ) , without Passport , presenting instead their national ID cards , or , for short stays , their voter-registration cards .
Although people of Hong Kong , Macau and mainland China do not use Passport to travel between the three places , other documents , such as the Mainland Travel Permit ( for the people of Hong Kong and Macau ) , are used instead ; foreigners are required to present their passports at the immigration control points .
Point of view shot ( also known as Point of view shot or Point of view shot ) is a short film scene that shows what a character ( the subject ) is looking at ( represented through the camera ) .
Point of view shot is usually established by being positioned between a shot of a character looking at something , and a shot showing the character 's reaction ( see shot reverse shot ) .
Point of view shot represents the joint POV of two ( or more ) characters .
Point of view shot clambers on the wall of snow and jumps down , as if Point of view shot were human .
A more plausible theory to explain motion perception ( at least on a descriptive level ) are two distinct perceptual illusions : phi phenomenon and beta movement .
Alfonso Leng ( 11 February 1894 -- 11 November 1974 ) was a post-romantic composer of classical music and Alfonso Leng .
Film is a unique medium in that Propaganda film reproduces images , movement , and sound in a lifelike manner as Propaganda film fuses meaning with evolvement as time passes in the story depicted .
In depicting the 1905 Russian Revolution Potemkin sought to create a new history for Russia , one led and triumphed over by the formerly oppressed masses .
Another of Eisenstein 's films , 1927 's , depicted the Bolshevik perspective on the October Revolution , culminating in the storming of the Winter Palace which provided Soviet viewers with the victory that the workers and peasants lacked in Battleship Potemkin , ending with Lenin ( as played by an unknown worker ) declaring that the government is overthrown .
Films like the 1941 Heimkehr ( Homecoming ) depicted the plight of homesick ethnic Germans in Poland longing to return to the Reich which in turn set the psychological conditions for the real attack and acceptance of the German policy , Lebensraum ( living space ) .
Another of Riefenstahl 's films , 1938 's Olympia , was meant to prove that the Reichstag was a democratic and open society under Nazi rule .
Other propaganda movies , such as Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo ( 1944 ) and Casablanca ( 1942 ) , have become so well loved by film viewers that they can stand on their own as dramatic films , apart from their original role as propaganda vehicles .
Also popular in the Soviet Union , the government produced such animated shorts as What Hitler Wants , which depicts a devilish Hitler giving Russian factories to capitalists , enslaving and riding once-free Soviet citizens , but shows that the U.S.S.R. will be prepared to fight , paying the Germans back in triplicate , ready to beat the ` fascist pirates ' .
One of the conventions of the genre was to depict a racial and socioeconomic cross-section of the United States , either a platoon on the front lines or soldiers training on a base , which come together to fight for the good of the country .
Red Dawn ( 1984 ) depicts an alternate 1980s in which the United States is invaded by the Soviet Union , Cuba , Nicaragua , and other Latin American allies of the U.S.S.R. and a group of small-town high school students engage in guerrilla warfare in their resistance of the occupation , eventually beating the communists .
Both Pork Chop Hill and Shangganling depict a single battle in which a small dedicated unit defends a small holdout with very little hope of reprieve .
Between the 1940s and 1970s the Green Revolution increased agriculture production around the world which led to further increases in farm size and a reduction in the number of farms .
Good Eating Habits ( 1951 ) by Coronet Films is a drama focusing on gluttony and `` hidden hunger , '' where well-nourished people eat poorly and malnourish themselves .
Miracles From Agriculture ( 1960 ) from the USDA presents then supermarkets as the showplaces of agriculture , discussing methods of improvement in the growing , handling , processing , and shipping of food products and the cooperative assistance offered by agricultural and food-processing research centers ; Propaganda film also hypothesizes that a nation grows according to the productivity of its agriculture .
Since the 1990s to the present , responses to mad-cow disease , genetically modified foods , flu epidemics in pigs and birds , and an increase in foodborne illness outbreaks , agricultural pollution , and Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations ( CAFOs ) have led people to question where their food comes from and what is actually in Propaganda film .
The exact correlations between these local stages and the ICS stages is still a matter of detail .
The global average temperature in the mid-Pliocene ( 3.3 -- 3 mya ) was 2 -- 3 ° C higher than today , global sea level 25 m higher and the Northern hemisphere ice sheet was ephemeral before the onset of extensive glaciation over Greenland that occurred in Pliocene around 3 Ma .
The border between the Miocene and Pliocene is also the time of the Messinian salinity crisis .
Sea level changes exposed the land-bridge between Alaska and Asia .
In North America , rodents , large mastodons and gomphotheres , and opossums continued successfully , while hoofed animals ( ungulates ) declined , with camel , deer and horse all seeing populations recede .
Bears , dogs and weasels ( originally from North America ) joined cats , hyenas and civets as the African predators , forcing hyenas to adapt as specialized scavengers .
The predatory South American phorusrhacids were rare in this time ; among the last was Titanis , a large phorusrhacid that migrated to North America and rivaled mammals as top predator .
The band was fronted by Egyptian-Indian singer Kyra Pharao ( Claudia Banerjee ) ( born 17 January 1971 ) and the American rapper Deon Blue ( born 20 January 1970 ) .
Their third single `` World of Magic '' was not quite as successful as the first two singles ; however , Pharao entered the Top 30 both in Germany and Sweden .
Pharaoh ( , or ) is a title used in many modern discussions of the rulers of all Ancient Egyptian dynasties .
About the late twenty-first dynasty ( tenth century BCE ) , however , instead of being used alone as before , Pharaoh began to be added to the other titles before the ruler 's name , and from the twenty-fifth dynasty ( eighth to seventh centuries BCE ) it was , at least in ordinary usage , the only epithet prefixed to the royal appellative .
While the first years of the AFL saw uneven competition and low attendance , American Football League was buttressed by a generous television contract with ABC that broadcast the more offense oriented American Football League nationwide .
Continuing to attract top talent from colleges and the NFL by the mid-1960s , as well as successful franchise shifts to San Diego ( from LA ) and Kansas City ( from Dallas ) , the AFL established a dedicated following .
Bell , wary of expanding the 12-team league and risking American Football League newfound success , rejected the offer .
The Texans and Oilers , winners of their divisions , faced each other for the 1962 AFL Championship on December 23 .
The Miami Dolphins joined American Football League for a fee of $ 7.5 million and started play in the AFL 's Eastern Division in 1966 .
In 1966 , the rivalry between the AFL and NFL reached an all-time peak .
Green Bay defensive tackle Henry Jordan offered a compliment to Oakland and the AFL , when he said , '' ... the AFL is becoming much more sophisticated on offense .
The AFL added American Football League tenth and final team on May 24 , 1967 , when American Football League awarded the league 's second expansion franchise to an ownership group from Cincinnati , Ohio , headed by NFL legend Paul Brown .
However , on November 17 , 1968 , when NBC cut away from a game between the Jets and Raiders to air the children 's movie Heidi , the ensuing uproar helped disprove the notion that fans still considered the AFL an inferior product .
All of these innovations pioneered by the AFL , including American Football League more exciting style of play and colorful uniforms , have essentially made today 's professional football more like the AFL than like the old-line NFL .
American Football League featured many outstanding games , such as the classic 1962 double-overtime American Football League championship game between the Dallas Texans and the defending champion Houston Oilers .
Long passes ( `` bombs '' ) were commonplace in AFL offenses , led by such talented quarterbacks as John Hadl , Daryle Lamonica and Len Dawson .
Buffalo , having lost American Football League original NFL franchise in 1929 and turned down by the NFL at least twice ( 1940 and 1950 ) for a replacement , returned to the NFL with the merger .
The return of football to Kansas City was the first time that city had seen professional football since the NFL 's Kansas City Blues/Cowboys of the 1920s ; the arrival of the Chiefs , and the contemporary arrival of the St. Louis Football Cardinals , brought professional football back to Missouri for the first time since the temporary St. Louis Gunners of 1934 .
Kevin Sherrington of The Dallas Morning News has argued that the presence of AFL and the subsequent merger radically altered the fortunes of the Pittsburgh Steelers , saving the team `` from stinking '' .
Rounding out this mix of potential talent were the true `` free agents '' , the walk-ons and the `` wanna-be 's '' , who tried out in droves for the chance to play professional American football .
After the AFL-NFL merger agreement in 1966 , and after the AFL 's Jets defeated the `` best team in the history of the NFL '' , the Colts , a popular misconception fostered by the NFL and spread by media reports was that the AFL defeated the NFL because of the Common Draft instituted in 1967 .
Another example is cited by the University of Kansas website , which describes the 1961 Bluebonnet Bowl , won by KU , and goes on to say `` Two Kansas players , quarterback John Hadl and fullback Curtis McClinton , signed professional contracts on the field immediately after the conclusion of the game .
Bills ' owner Ralph C. Wilson Jr. ( a 2009 Hall of Fame inductee ) and Titans ' owner Bud Adams are the only surviving members of the Foolish Club , the eight original owners of AFL franchises .
A similar situation occurred in the 1968 season , when the Oakland Raiders and the Kansas City Chiefs finished the regular season tied with identical records of 12 -- 2 in the AFL West Division .
In mathematics , especially order theory , a partially ordered set ( or poset ) formalizes and generalizes the intuitive concept of an ordering , sequencing , or arrangement of the elements of a set .
Another real-life example is the set of all street addresses in a town : 50 Maple St. is clearly `` before '' 52 Maple St. and `` after '' 48 Maple St. , therefore all Maple St. addresses are ordered .
A partial order under which every pair of elements is comparable is called a total order or linear order ; a totally ordered set is also called a chain ( e.g. , the natural numbers with their standard order ) .
In a poset , the smallest element , if Partially ordered set exists , is an initial object , and the largest element , if Partially ordered set exists , is a terminal object .
Under this assumption partial order relations are well behaved at limits in the sense that if , and ai ≤ bi for all i , then a ≤ b.
For a ≤ b , the closed interval is the set of elements x satisfying a ≤ x ≤ b ( i.e. a ≤ x and x ≤ b ) .
Partially ordered set contains at least the elements a and b.
Genesis-and-destruction , as Parmenides emphasizes , is a false opinion , because to be means to be completely , once and for all .
( B 7.1-8 .2 ) After the exposition of the arche - ἀρχή , i.e. the origin , the necessary part of reality that is understood through reason or logos ( that it Is ) , in the next section , the Way of Appearance/Opinion/Seeming , Parmenides proceeds to explain the structure of the becoming cosmos ( which is an illusion , of course ) that comes from this origin .
The structure of the cosmos is a fundamental binary principle that governs the manifestations of all the particulars : `` the aether fire of flame '' ( B 8.56 ) , which is gentle , mild , soft , thin and clear , and self-identical , and the other is `` ignorant night '' , body thick and heavy .
( B 1.24-30 ) It is with respect to this religious/mystical context that recent generations of scholars such as Alexander P. Mourelatos , Charles H. Kahn , and the controversial Peter Kingsley have begun to call parts of the traditional , rational logical/philosophical interpretation of Parmenides into question ( Kingsley in particular stating that Parmenides practiced iatromancy ) .
Even Plato Parmenides , in the Sophist , refers to the work of `` our Father Parmenides '' as something to be taken very seriously and treated with respect .
In the Theaetetus , Socrates says that Parmenides alone among the wise ( Protagoras , Heraclitus , Empedocles , Epicharmus , and Homer ) denied that everything is change and motion .
According to Aristotle , this led Democritus and Leucippus , and many other physicists , to propose the atomic theory , which supposes that everything in the universe is either atoms or voids , specifically to contradict Parmenides ' argument .
Tetraodontidae excellent eyesight , combined with this speed burst , is the first and most important defense against predators .
Tetraodontidae backup defense mechanism , used if successfully pursued , is to fill Tetraodontidae extremely elastic stomach with water ( or air when outside the water ) until Tetraodontidae is much larger and almost spherical in shape .
While chiri is much more likely to cause death , sashimi fugu often causes intoxication , light-headedness , and numbness of the lips , and is often eaten for this reason .
Cases of neurological symptoms , including numbness and tingling of the lips and mouth , have been reported to rise after the consumption of puffers caught in the area of Titusville , Florida .
The Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources issued a warning not to eat Tetraodontidae after local fishermen died upon consuming Tetraodontidae for dinner .
A partial function is said to be injective or surjective when the total function given by the restriction of the partial function to Partial function domain of definition is .
For example , when considering the operation of morphism composition in Concrete Categories , the composition operation is a total function if and only if has one element .
Photoelectric effect is an interaction between the incident photon and the outermost electron .
The time lag between the incidence of radiation and the emission of Photoelectric effect is very small , less than 10 − 9 second .
The maximum kinetic energy of an ejected electron is given by where is the Planck constant and is the frequency of the incident photon .
The term is the work function ( sometimes denoted , or ) , which gives the minimum energy required to remove a delocalised electron from the surface of the metal .
Light , and especially ultra-violet light , discharges negatively electrified bodies with the production of rays of the same nature as cathode rays .
Johann Elster ( 1854 -- 1920 ) and Hans Geitel ( 1855 -- 1923 ) , students in Heidelberg , developed the first practical Photoelectric effect cells that could be used to measure the intensity of light .
A glass panel placed between the source of electromagnetic waves and the receiver absorbed ultraviolet radiation that assisted the electrons in jumping across the gap .
The discovery by Hertz in 1887 that the incidence of ultra-violet light on a spark gap facilitated the passage of Photoelectric effect spark , led immediately to a series of investigations by Hallwachs , Hoor , Righi and Stoletow .
Since the energy of the photoelectrons emitted is exactly the energy of the incident photon minus the material 's work function or binding energy , the work function of a sample can be determined by bombarding Photoelectric effect with a monochromatic X-ray source or UV source , and measuring the kinetic energy distribution of the electrons emitted .
Photons hitting a thin film of alkali metal or semiconductor material such as gallium arsenide in an image intensifier tube cause the ejection of photoelectrons due to Photoelectric effect .
In these materials , electrons that move to the conduction band are all of sufficient energy to be emitted from the material and as such , the film that absorbs photons can be quite thick .
Photoelectric effect is one interaction mechanism between photons and atoms .
Compton scattering and pair production are examples of two other competing mechanisms .
The corollary is that high-Z materials make good gamma-ray shields , which is the principal reason that lead ( Z = 82 ) is a preferred and ubiquitous gamma radiation shield .
On the European stage A.S. Roma won an Inter-Cities Fairs Cup in 1960 -- 61 , coming close to European Cup victory in 1983 -- 84 ( lost the one-legged final played at home against Liverpool after a penalty shootout ) , and finishing as runners-up in the UEFA Cup for 1990 -- 91 ( two-legged aggregate defeat against Internazionale ) .
A.S. Roma was founded in the summer of 1927 when a secretary of the National Fascist Party , Italo Foschi , initiated the merger of three older Italian Football Championship clubs from the city of Rome ; Roman FC , SS Alba-Audace and Fortitudo-Pro Roma SGS .
<ref> </ref> After a slump in league form and the departure of high key players , A.S. Roma eventually rebuilt their squad adding goalscorers such as the Argentine Enrique Guaita .
However , these were accompanied by victories against Inter Milan and a sensational victory against Bayern Munich in the return fixture , which saw A.S. Roma fight back from 0 -- 2 down at half-time to emerge as 3 -- 2 winners .
After the formal takeover on 18 August , A.S. Roma bought forward Pablo Daniel Osvaldo , midfielder Miralem Pjanić , Fernando Gago and defender Simon Kjær , as well as youngster Fabio Borini , made A.S. Roma costed more than 40 million if the loan deal were successfully turned to definitive deal .
Roma have had many managers and trainers running the team during A.S. Roma history , here is a chronological list of A.S. Roma from 1927 onwards .
A.S. Roma major founders Fortitudo and Alba having been relegated at the end of 1926 -- 27 campaign , new-founded Roma had to take part to Southern First Division championship ( Serie B ) for its inaugural season ; nevertheless FIGC decided a special enlargement of first level division re-admitting AS Roma as SSC Napoli .
A.S. Roma portrays the female wolf with the two infant brothers Romulus and Remus , illustrating the myth of the founding of Rome , superimposed on a bipartite golden yellow over maroon red shield .
The derby between the two is called the Derby della Capitale , A.S. Roma is amongst the most heated and emotional footballing rivalries in the world .
Nowadays fans also consider other Serie A giants like Juventus ( rivalry born especially in the 1980s ) , Milan and Internazionale ( increased in recent years ) among their rivals as these four compete for the top four spots in the league table to secure a spot in the Champions League .
From 2004 to 2011 , A.S. Roma shares are distributed between ; 67.1 % to Compagnia Italpetroli SpA ( the Sensi family holding ) , 2.5 % to Danilo Coppola and 30.4 % to other shareholders .
A.S. Roma had set-up a special amortization fund using Articolo 18-bis Legge 91/1981 mainly for the abnormal signing prior 2002 -- 03 season , ( such as Davide Bombardini for $ 11 million account value in June 2002 , which the flopped player exchange boosted 2001 -- 02 season result ) and the tax payment of 2002 -- 03 season was rescheduled .
In 2006 -- 07 season the accounting method changed to IFRS , which 2005 -- 06 result was reclassified as net loss of $ 4,051,905 and 2006 -- 07 season was net income of $ 10,135,539 ( $ 14.011 million as a group ) .
Moreover , the special fund ( $ 80,189,123 ) was removed from the asset and co-currently for the equity as scheduled , made A.S. Roma group had a negative equity of $ 8.795 million on 30 June 2007 .
In 2011 -- 12 , the renewal of squad and participate in 2011 -- 12 UEFA Europa League had worsen the financial result , which the $ 50 million capital increase was counter-weighted totally by the net loss .
One of the subsidiary of A.S. Roma ( joint venture with SS Lazio , 37.5 % x2 and Parma , 25 % ) , Società Diritti Sportivi S.r.l. was in the process of liquidation since 2005 .
However after the bankruptcy of old Viola , both A.S. Roma and Lazio had increased it shares ratio from 25 % to 37.5 % .
The end of the Paleocene ( 55.5 / 54.8 Mya ) was marked by one of the most significant periods of global change during the Cenozoic , the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum , which upset oceanic and atmospheric circulation and led to the extinction of numerous deep-sea benthic foraminifera and on land , a major turnover in mammals .
The terms ` Paleogene System ' ( formal ) and ` lower Tertiary System ' ( informal ) are applied to the rocks deposited during the ` Paleogene Period ' .
The global climate during Paleogene departed from the hot and humid conditions of the late Mesozoic era and began a cooling and drying trend which , although having been periodically disrupted by warm periods such as the Paleocene -- Eocene Thermal Maximum , persists today .
Africa was moving north to meet with Europe and form the Mediterranean , while South America was moving closer to North America ( they would later connect via the Isthmus of Panama ) .
Paleogene is notable in the context of offshore oil drilling , and especially in Gulf of Mexico oil exploration , where it is usually referred to as the `` Lower Tertiary '' .
Note that if Preorder is R + = , S / ~ is the set of R-cycle equivalence classes : x ∈ y if and only if x = y or x is in an R-cycle with y .
Freudian psychoanalysis refers to a specific type of treatment in which the `` analysand '' ( analytic patient ) verbalizes thoughts , including free associations , fantasies , and dreams , from which the analyst induces the unconscious conflicts causing the patient 's symptoms and character problems , and interprets them for the patient to create insight for resolution of the problems .
Through the analysis of conflicts , including those contributing to resistance and those involving transference onto the analyst of distorted reactions , psychoanalytic treatment can hypothesize how patients unconsciously are Psychoanalysis own worst enemies : how unconscious , symbolic reactions that have been stimulated by experience are causing symptoms .
Therefore the early treatment techniques , including hypnotism and abreaction , were designed to make the unconscious conscious in order to relieve the pressure and the apparently resulting symptoms .
Based on his experience with depressed and self-destructive patients , and pondering the carnage of World War I , Freud became dissatisfied with considering only oral and sexual motivations for behavior .
The Oedipus complex , Freud explained tirelessly , was the nucleus of the neurosis and the foundational source of all art , myth , religion , philosophy , therapy -- indeed of all human culture and civilization .
Led by Heinz Hartmann , Kris , Rappaport and Lowenstein , the group built upon understandings of the synthetic function of the ego as a mediator in psychic functioning .
Hartmann in particular distinguished between autonomous ego functions ( such as memory and intellect which could be secondarily affected by conflict ) and synthetic functions which were a result of compromise formation .
In the 1960s , Freud 's early thoughts on the childhood development of female sexuality were challenged ; this challenge led to the development of a variety of understandings of female sexual development , many of which modified the timing and normality of several of Freud 's theories ( which had been gleaned from the treatment of women with mental disturbances ) .
As in all fields of healthcare , there are some persistent conflicts regarding specific causes of some syndromes , and disputes regarding the best treatment techniques .
The ego develops slowly and gradually , being concerned with mediating between the urgings of the id and the realities of the external world ; Psychoanalysis thus operates on the ` reality principle ' .
A variation of ego psychology , termed `` modern conflict theory '' , is more broadly an update and revision of structural theory ( Freud , 1923 , 1926 ) ; Psychoanalysis does away with some of structural theory 's more arcane features , such as where repressed thoughts are stored .
Current theoreticians following Brenner 's many suggestions ( see especially Brenner 's 1982 book , The Mind in Conflict ) include Sandor Abend , MD ( Abend , Porder , & Willick , ( 1983 ) , Borderline Patients : Clinical Perspectives ) , Jacob Arlow ( Arlow and Brenner ( 1964 ) , Psychoanalysis Concepts and the Structural Theory ) , and Jerome Blackman ( 2003 ) , 101 Defenses : How the Mind Shields Itself ) .
The clinical symptoms that suggest object relations problems ( typically developmental delays throughout life ) include disturbances in an individual 's capacity to feel warmth , empathy , trust , sense of security , identity stability , consistent emotional closeness , and stability in relationships with significant others .
Concepts regarding internal representations ( also sometimes termed , `` introjects , '' `` self and object representations , '' or `` internalizations of self and other '' ) although often attributed to Melanie Klein , were actually first mentioned by Sigmund Freud in his early concepts of drive theory ( Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality , 1905 ) .
Langs ' recent work in some measure returns to the earlier Freud , in that Langs prefers a modified version of the topographic model of the mind ( conscious , preconscious , and unconscious ) over the structural model ( id , ego , and super-ego ) , including the former 's emphasis on trauma ( though Langs looks to death-related traumas rather than sexual traumas ) .
Fonagy and Target , in London , have propounded their view of the necessity of helping certain detached , isolated patients , develop the capacity for `` mentalization '' associated with thinking about relationships and themselves .
The term `` intersubjectivity '' was introduced in psychoanalysis by George E. Atwood and Robert Stolorow ( 1984 ) .
`` Modern psychoanalysis '' is a term coined by Hyman Spotnitz and his colleagues to describe a body of theoretical and clinical approaches that aim to extend Freud 's theories so as to make them applicable to the full spectrum of emotional disorders and broaden the potential for treatment to pathologies thought to be untreatable by classical methods .
The shorthand term , `` oedipal '' -- later explicated by Joseph Sandler in `` On the Concept Superego '' ( 1960 ) and modified by Charles Brenner in `` The Mind in Conflict '' ( 1982 ) -- refers to the powerful attachments that children make to their parents in the preschool years .
Besides superego development , children `` resolve '' Psychoanalysis preschool oedipal conflicts through channeling wishes into something Psychoanalysis parents approve of ( `` sublimation '' ) and the development , during the school-age years ( `` latency '' ) of age-appropriate obsessive-compulsive defensive maneuvers ( rules , repetitive games ) .
Using the various analytic and psychological techniques to assess mental problems , some believe that there are particular constellations of problems that are especially suited for analytic treatment ( see below ) whereas other problems might respond better to medicines and other interpersonal interventions .
Psychoanalysis mainly work with neurosis and hysteria in particular ; however , adapted forms of psychoanalysis are used in working with schizophrenia and other forms of psychosis or mental disorder .
Strachey ( 1936 ) stressed that figuring out ways the patient distorted perceptions about the analyst led to understanding what may have been forgotten ( also see Freud 's paper `` Repeating , Remembering , and Working Through '' ) .
This meant that the analytic situation was modified so that Psychoanalysis would be more suitable and more likely to be helpful for these patients .
Eagle ( 2007 ) believes that psychoanalysis can not be a self-contained discipline but instead must be open to influence from and integration with findings and theory from other disciplines .
The International Psychoanalytical Association ( IPA ) is the world 's primary accrediting and regulatory body for psychoanalysis .
The American Psychoanalytic Association ( APSaA ) has 38 affiliated societies , which have 10 or more active members who practice in a given geographical area .
The Institute of Psychoanalysis also publishes The International Journal of Psychoanalysis , maintains a library , furthers research , and holds public lectures .
Challenges to analytic theory began with Otto Rank and Alfred Adler ( turn of the 20th century ) , continued with behaviorists ( e.g.
In the past 30 years or so , the criticisms have centered on the issue of empirical verification , in spite of many empirical , prospective research studies that have been empirically validated ( e.g. , See the studies of Barbara Milrod , at Cornell University Medical School , et al. ) .
Other examples of well known therapies which also use insights of psychoanalysis are Mentalization-Based Treatment ( MBT ) , and Transference-Focused Psychotherapy ( TFP ) .
Exchanges between critics and defenders of psychoanalysis have often been so heated that they have come to be characterized as the Freud Wars The classic dismissal still belongs to Richard Feynman , who wrote off Psychoanalysis as `` witch doctors '' : Karl Popper argued that psychoanalysis is a pseudoscience because its claims are not testable and can not be refuted ; that is , they are not falsifiable .
Other commentators , such as Edward Timms , author of Karl Kraus -- Apocalyptic Satirist , have argued that Kraus respected Freud , though with reservations about the application of some of his theories , and that his views were far less black-and-white than Szasz suggests .
E. Fuller Torrey , writing in Witchdoctors and Psychiatrists ( 1986 ) , stated that Psychoanalysis theories have no more scientific basis than the theories of traditional native healers , `` witchdoctors '' or modern `` cult '' alternatives such as est.
Frank Cioffi , author of Freud and the Question of Pseudoscience , cites false claims of a sound scientific verification of Psychoanalysis and its elements as the strongest basis for classifying the work of Freud and his school as pseudoscience .
Pinyin , formally Pinyin , is the official phonetic system for transcribing the sound of Chinese characters into Latin script in China , Taiwan , and Singapore .
This Sin Wenz or `` New Writing '' , from which the present pinyin system differs only slightly , was much more linguistically sophisticated than earlier alphabets , with the major exception that Pinyin did not indicate tones .
In 1940 , the movement reached an apex when Mao 's Border Region Government declared that the Sin Wenz had the same legal status as traditional characters in government and public documents .
Beginning in the early 1980s , Western publications addressing Mainland China began using the Pinyin romanization system instead of earlier romanization systems ; this change followed the normalization of diplomatic relations between the United States and the PRC in 1979 .
The tone-marking diacritics are commonly omitted in popular news stories and even in scholarly works .
In Pinyin , the correspondence between the Roman letter and the sound is sometimes idiosyncratic , though not necessarily more so than the way the Latin script is employed in other languages .
Although this introduces the novel combination zh , Pinyin is internally consistent in how the two series are related , and reminds the trained reader that many Chinese pronounce sh , zh , ch as s , z , c ( and English-speakers use zh to represent / ʒ / in foreign languages such as Russian anyway ) .
The following chart gives the combinations of medials and finals based on an analysis that assumes just two vowel nuclei , / a / and / ə / ; various allophones result depending on phonetic context .
In each cell below , the first line indicates IPA , the second indicates pinyin for a standalone ( no-initial ) form , and the third indicates pinyin for a combination with an initial .
Technically , i , u , ü without a following vowel are finals , not medials , and therefore take the tone marks , but Pinyin are more concisely displayed as above .
Pinyin are spelled differently when there is no initial consonant in order to mark a new syllable : fanguan is fan-guan , while fangwan is fang-wan ( and equivalent to The apostrophe is used before a syllable starting with a vowel ( a , o , or e ) in a multiple-syllable word when the syllable does not start the word ( which is most commonly realized as ɰ ) , unless the syllable immediately follows a hyphen or other dash .
Orthographic rules were put into effect in 1988 by the National Educational Commission ( 国家教育委员会 , pinyin : Guójiā Jiàoyù Wěiyuánhuì ) and the National Language Commission ( 国家语言文字工作委员会 , pinyin : Guójiā Yǔyán Wénzì Gōngzuò Wěiyuánhuì ) .
This style , most likely rooted in early technical limitations , has led many to believe that Pinyin rules call for this practice and also for the use of a Latin alpha rather than the standard style of the letter found in most fonts .
But if no letter is written to represent a triphthong 's middle ( non-semi-vowel ) sound ( as in ui or iu ) , then the tone marker goes on the final ( second ) vowel letter .
Whereas Wade-Giles needs to use the trema to distinguish between chü ( pinyin ju ) and chu ( pinyin zhu ) , this ambiguity can not arise with pinyin , so the more convenient form ju is used instead of jü .
Taiwan ( Republic of China ) adopted Tongyong pinyin , a modification of Pinyin , as the official romanization system on the national level between October 2002 and January 2009 , when it switched to Pinyin .
Tongyong pinyin ( `` official phonetic '' ) , a variant of Pinyin developed in Taiwan , was designed to romanize languages and dialects spoken on the island in addition to Mandarin Chinese .
The Kuomintang ( Chinese Nationalist Party ) resisted Pinyin adoption , preferring the Hanyu pinyin system used in China and in general use internationally .
This has drawn some criticism as Pinyin may lead to confusion when uninformed speakers apply either native or English assumed pronunciations to words .
A recent study on Chinese writing and literacy concluded , `` By and large , Pinyin represents the Chinese sounds better than the Wade-Giles system , and does so with fewer extra marks '' .
Simple computer systems , able to display only 7-bit ASCII text ( essentially the 26 Latin letters , 10 digits and punctuation marks ) , long provided a convincing argument in favor of pinyin over hanzi .
This results in spellings that are different from both the customary spelling of the place name , and the pinyin spelling of the name in Chinese : Tongyong pinyin was developed in Taiwan for use in rendering not only Mandarin Chinese , but other languages and dialects spoken on the island such as Taiwanese , Hakka and aboriginal languages .
In the Gnostic Acts of Peter and the Twelve , found with the Gospel of Thomas in the Nag Hammadi library , the travelling pearl merchant Lithargoel is eventually revealed to be Jesus .
Pantheism was popularized in the modern era as both a theology and philosophy based on the work of the 17th century philosopher Baruch Spinoza , whose Ethics was an answer to Descartes ' famous dualist theory that the body and spirit are separate .
In De spatio reali , Raphson begins with a distinction between atheistic ` panhylists ' ( from the Greek roots , `` all '' , and , `` matter '' ) , who believe everything is matter , and ` pantheists ' who believe in `` a certain universal substance , material as well as intelligent , that fashions all things that exist out of Pantheism own essence '' .
In 1785 , a major controversy about Spinoza 's philosophy between critic Friedrich Jacobi and defender Moses Mendelssohn , known in German as the Pantheismus-Streit , helped to spread pantheism to many German thinkers in the late 18th and in the 19th century .
In the mid-eighteenth century , English theologian Daniel Waterland defined pantheism as : `` Pantheism supposes God and nature , or God and the whole universe , to be one and the same substance -- one universal being ; insomuch that men 's souls are only modifications of the divine substance '' .
`` I do not believe in a personal God and I have never denied this but have expressed Pantheism clearly , '' he wrote in another letter in 1954 .
There is nothing separate or distinct from God , for God is the universe .
If , on the other hand , the conception taken as the foundation of the system is that the great inclusive unity is the world Pantheism , or the universe , God is swallowed up in that unity , which may be designated nature '' .
In 1896 , theologian J. H. Worman identified seven categories of pantheism : Mechanical or materialistic ( God the mechanical unity of existence ) ; Ontological ( abstract unity , Spinoza ) ; Dynamic ; Psychical ( God is the soul of the world ) ; Ethical ( God is the universal moral order , Johann Gottlieb Fichte ) ; Logical ( Hegel ) ; and Pure ( absorption of God into nature , which Worman equates with atheism ) .
All Mahāvākyas ( Great Sayings ) of the Upanishads , in one way or another , seem to indicate the unity of the world with the Brahman .
In the tradition of Pantheism leading thinkers Lao Tzu and Zhuangzi , Taoism is comparable with pantheism , as The Tao is always spoken of with profound religious reverence and respect , similar to the way that pantheism discusses the `` divinity '' of the Universe .
Panentheism ( from Greek ( pân ) `` all '' ; ( en ) `` in '' ; and ( theós ) `` God '' ; `` all-in-God '' ) is a belief system which posits that the divine ( be it a monotheistic God , polytheistic gods , or an eternal cosmic animating force ) , interpenetrates every part of nature and timelessly extends beyond Panentheism .
In the second formulation , the universe and the divine are not ontologically equivalent .
The Logos pervades the cosmos , whereby all thoughts and all things originate , or as Heraclitus said : `` He who hears not me but the Logos will say : All is one '' .
Though Spinoza has been called the `` prophet '' and `` prince '' of pantheism , in a letter to Henry Oldenburg Spinoza states that : `` as to the view of certain people that I identify god with nature ( taken as a kind of mass or corporeal matter ) , Panentheism are quite mistaken '' For Spinoza , our universe ( cosmos ) is a mode under two attributes of Thought and Extension .
Furthermore , Martial Guéroult suggested the term `` Panentheism '' , rather than `` Pantheism '' to describe Spinoza 's view of the relation between God and the world .
Hartshorne formulated God as a being who could become `` more perfect '' : He has absolute perfection in categories for which absolute perfection is possible , and relative perfection ( i.e. , is superior to all others ) in categories for which perfection can not be precisely determined .
Creation is seen as the expression of God 's will in the contingent world , and every created thing is seen as a sign of God 's sovereignty , and leading to knowledge of him ; the signs of God are most particularly revealed in human beings .
This does not mean , however , that the creation is wholly separated from God , because the creation exists by and in the Divine Energies ( workings ) .
These energies are the operations of God and are God , but the created is not God in the Divine Essence .
That is , God 's Energies ( activities ) maintain all things and all beings , even if those beings have explicitly rejected him .
Process theology and Creation Spirituality , two recent developments in Christian theology , contain Panentheism ideas .
Some argue that panentheism should also include the notion that God has always been related to some world or another , which denies the idea of creation out of nothing ( creatio ex nihilo ) .
Nazarene Methodist theologian Thomas Jay Oord advocates panentheism , but he uses the word `` theocosmocentrism '' to highlight the notion that God and some world or another are the primary conceptual starting blocks for eminently fruitful theology .
The most influential and dominant school of Indian philosophy , Advaita Vedanta , rejects theism and dualism by insisting that `` Brahman ultimate reality is without parts or attributes ... one without a second '' .
The relationship between Brahman and the creation is often thought to be Panentheism .
Nimbarka 's school of differential monism ( Dvaitadvaita ) , Ramanuja 's school of qualified monism ( Vishistadvaita ) and Saiva Siddhanta are all considered to be Panentheism .
As Mani , the founder of Manichaeism , stated , `` The true God has nothing to do with the material world or cosmos '' , and , `` It is the Prince of Darkness who spoke with Moses , the Jews and their priests .
Thus the Christians , the Jews , and the Pagans are involved in the same error when they worship this God .
Valentinian Gnosticism teaches that matter came about through emanations of the supreme being , and to some this event is held to be more accidental than intentional .
Paraphilia ( from Greek para παρά = beside and - philia φιλία = friendship , meaning love ) describes the experience of intense sexual arousal to highly atypical objects , situations , or individuals .
Several sub-classifications of Paraphilia have been proposed , and some argue that a fully dimensional , spectrum or complaint-oriented approach would better reflect the evidence .
Psychiatrist Glen Gabbard writes that despite efforts by Stekel and Money , `` the term paraphilia remains pejorative in most circumstances '' .
Clinicians distinguish between optional , preferred and exclusive Paraphilia , though the terminology is not completely standardized .
These include an adolescent male who had a strong fetishistic interest in the exhaust pipes of cars , a young man with a similar interest in a specific type of car , and a man who had a paraphilic interest in sneezing ( both his own and the sneezing of others ) .
But a paraphilic disorder is defined : that 's when an atypical sexual interest causes distress or impairment to the individual or harm to others '' .
Charles Allen Moser pointed out that this change is not really substantive as DSM-IV already acknowledged a difference between Paraphilia and non-pathological but unusual sexual interests , a distinction that is virtually identical to what is being proposed for DSM-5 , and it is a distinction that , in practice , has often been ignored .
The DSM-5 will then be closer to the DSM-I and DSM-II than to their successors , which all were at least trying to separate the concept of `` mental disorder '' from cultural norms , and which made `` harm '' or `` distress '' a necessary condition for having a mental disorder .
A 2008 study analyzing the sexual fantasies of 200 heterosexual men by using the Wilson Sex Fantasy Questionnaire exam , determined that males with a pronounced degree of fetish interest had a greater number of older brothers , a high 2D :4 D digit ratio ( which would indicate excessive prenatal estrogen exposure ) , and an elevated probability of being left-handed , suggesting that disturbed hemispheric brain lateralization may play a role in deviant attractions .
Hippocrates , Aristotle , Celsus , Soranus , and Galen , understood the differences in growing and maturing organisms that necessitated different treatment `` Ex toto non sic pueri ut viri curari debent '' .
A 2nd century AD manuscript by the Greek physician and gynecologist Soranus of Ephesus dealt with neonatal pediatrics .
In the USA , the first similar institutions were the Children 's Hospital of Philadelphia , which opened in 1855 , and then Boston Children 's Hospital ( 1869 ) .
Entrants to graduate-entry courses ( as in the USA ) , usually lasting four or five years , have previously completed a three - or four-year university degree , commonly but by no means always in sciences .
The critical thinking of Aristotle and his emphasis on the relationship between structure and function marked the beginning of physiology in Ancient Greece , while Claudius Galenus ( c. 126 -- 199 AD ) , known as Galen , was the first to use experiments to probe the function of the body .
is an irrational number , which means that Pi can not be expressed exactly as a ratio of two integers ( such as 22/7 or other fractions that are commonly used to approximate ) ; consequently , Pi decimal representation never ends and never settles into a permanent repeating pattern .
In the 20th and 21st centuries , mathematicians and computer scientists discovered new approaches that -- when combined with increasing computational power -- extended the decimal representation of to , as of late 2011 , over 10 trillion ( 1013 ) digits .
Scientific applications generally require no more than 40 digits of , so the primary motivation for these computations is the human desire to break records , but the extensive calculations involved have been used to test supercomputers and high-precision multiplication algorithms .
Because Pi definition relates to the circle , is found in many formulae in trigonometry and geometry , especially those concerning circles , ellipses , or spheres .
The ubiquitous nature of makes Pi one of the most widely known mathematical constants , both inside and outside the scientific community : Several books devoted to Pi have been published ; the number is celebrated on Pi Day ; and record-setting calculations of the digits of often result in news headlines .
The lower-case letter ( or π in sans-serif font ) is not to be confused with the capital letter , which denotes a product of a sequence .
The earliest known use of the Greek letter to represent the ratio of a circle 's circumference to Pi diameter was by mathematician William Jones in his 1706 work Synopsis Palmariorum Matheseos ; or , a New Introduction to the Mathematics .
The degree to which can be approximated by rational numbers ( called the irrationality measure ) is not precisely known ; estimates have established that the irrationality measure is larger than the measure of or ln ( 2 ) , but smaller than the measure of Liouville numbers .
is a transcendental number , which means that Pi is not the solution of any non-constant polynomial with rational coefficients , such as The transcendence of has two important consequences : First , can not be expressed using any combination of rational numbers and square roots or n-th roots such as or Second , since no transcendental number can be constructed with compass and straightedge , it is not possible to `` square the circle '' .
In other words , Pi is impossible to construct , using compass and straightedge alone , a square whose area is equal to the area of a given circle .
The digits of have no apparent pattern and pass tests for statistical randomness including tests for normality ; a number of infinite length is called normal when all possible sequences of digits ( of any given length ) appear equally often .
Others maintain that the suggested relationship to is merely a coincidence , because there is no evidence that the pyramid builders had any knowledge of , and because the dimensions of the pyramid are based on other factors .
The earliest written approximations of are found in Egypt and Babylon , both within 1 percent of the true value .
In 150 BC , or perhaps earlier , Indian sources treat as ≈ 3.1622 .
Two verses in the Hebrew Bible ( written between the 8th and 3rd centuries BC ) describe a ceremonial pool in the Temple of Solomon with a diameter of ten cubits and a circumference of thirty cubits ; the verses imply is about three if the pool is circular .
This polygonal algorithm dominated for over 1,000 years , and as a result is sometimes referred to as `` Archimedes ' constant '' .
In 1882 , German mathematician Ferdinand von Lindemann proved that is transcendental , confirming a conjecture made by both Legendre and Euler .
Iterative methods were used by Japanese mathematician Yasumasa Kanada to set several records for computing between 1995 and 2002 .
According to Jörg Arndt and Christoph Haenel , thirty-nine digits are sufficient to perform most cosmological calculations , because that is the accuracy necessary to calculate the volume of the known universe with a precision of one atom .
An important application of digit extraction algorithms is to validate new claims of record computations : After a new record is claimed , the decimal result is converted to hexadecimal , and then a digit extraction algorithm is used to calculate several random hexadecimal digits near the end ; if Pi match , this provides a measure of confidence that the entire computation is correct .
Another Monte Carlo method for computing is to draw a circle inscribed in a square , and randomly place dots in the square .
where is the Ricci curvature tensor , is the scalar curvature , is the metric tensor , is the cosmological constant , is Newton 's gravitational constant , is the speed of light in vacuum , and is the stress -- energy tensor .
Coulomb 's law , from the discipline of electromagnetism , describes the electric field between two electric charges ( 1 and 2 ) separated by distance ( with 0 representing the vacuum permittivity of free space ) : The fact that is approximately equal to 3 plays a role in the relatively long lifetime of orthopositronium .
The sinuosity is the ratio between the actual length and the straight-line distance from source to mouth .
The record for memorizing digits of , certified by Guinness World Records , is 67,890 digits , recited in China by Lu Chao in 24 hours and 4 minutes on 20 November 2005 .
Pi is the solution of any non-constant polynomial with rational coefficients , such as The transcendence of has two important consequences : First , can not be expressed using any combination of rational numbers and square roots or n-th roots such .
`` Post-structuralists '' were thinkers who moved away from the strict interpretations and applications of structuralist ideas .
Structuralists , while also somewhat inter-disciplinary , were more comfortable within departmental boundaries and often maintained the autonomy of Postmodernism analytical methods over the objects Postmodernism analyzed .
Post-structuralists , in contrast to Structuralists , tend to place a great deal of skepticism on the independence of theoretical premises from collective bias and the influence of power , and reject the notion of a `` pure '' or `` scientific '' methodology in social analysis , semiotics or philosophical speculation .
J. M. Thompson , in his 1914 article in The Hibbert Journal ( a quarterly philosophical review ) , used Postmodernism to describe changes in attitudes and beliefs in the critique of religion : `` The raison d'etre of Post-Modernism is to escape from the double-mindedness of Modernism by being thorough in Postmodernism criticism by extending it to religion as well as theology , to Catholic feeling as well as to Catholic tradition '' .
These developments -- re-evaluation of the entire Western value system ( love , marriage , popular culture , shift from industrial to service economy ) that took place since the 1950s and 1960s , with a peak in the Social Revolution of 1968 -- are described with the term Postmodernity , Influences on Postmodernism thought , Paul Lützeler ( St. Louis ) as opposed to Postmodernism , a term referring to an opinion or movement .
Critics of modernism argued that the attributes of perfection and minimalism themselves were subjective , and pointed out anachronisms in modern thought and questioned the benefits of Postmodernism philosophy .
Among writers defining the terms of this discourse is Charles Jencks , described by Architectural Design Magazine as `` the definer of Postmodernism for thirty years '' and the `` internationally acclaimed critic ... , whose name became synonymous with Postmodernism in the 80s '' .
However , the transition from Modernism to Postmodernism is often said to have happened at 3:32 pm on the 15th of July in 1972 , when Pruitt Igoe ; a housing development for low-income people in St. Louis designed by architect Minoru Yamasaki , which had been a prize winning version of Le Corbusier 's ` machine for modern living ' was deemed uninhabitable and was torn down ( Irving 1993 , 480 ) .
A postmodernism of ` reaction ' rejects Modernism and seeks to return to the lost traditions and history in order to create a new cultural synthesis , while Postmodernity of ` resistance ' seeks to deconstruct Modernism and is a critique of the origins without necessarily returning to them ( Irving 1993 , 60 ) .
Literary postmodernism was officially inaugurated in the United States with the first issue of boundary 2 , subtitled `` Journal of Postmodern Literature and Culture '' , which appeared in 1972 .
In ` Postmodernism Fiction ' ( 1987 ) , Brian McHale details the shift from modernism to postmodernism , arguing that the former is characterized by an epistemological dominant , and that Postmodernism works have developed out of modernism and are primarily concerned with questions of ontology .
Jonathan Kramer posits the idea ( following Umberto Eco and Jean-François Lyotard ) that postmodernism ( including musical postmodernism ) is less a surface style or historical period ( i.e. , condition ) than an attitude .
Postmodernism music , on the other hand , shares characteristics with Postmodernism art -- that is , art that comes after and reacts against modernism ( see Modernism in Music ) .
Eclecticism and freedom of expression , in reaction to the rigidity and aesthetic limitations of modernism , are the hallmarks of the Postmodernism influence in musical composition .
Photography ( derived from the Greek photos - for `` light '' and - graphos for `` drawing '' ) is the art , science , and practice of creating durable images by recording light or other electromagnetic radiation , either chemically by means of a light-sensitive material such as Photography film , or electronically by means of an image sensor .
Typically , a lens is used to focus the light reflected or emitted from objects into a real image on the light-sensitive surface inside a camera during a timed exposure .
In the 6th century AD , Byzantine mathematician Anthemius of Tralles used a type of camera obscura in his experiments , Ibn al-Haytham ( Alhazen ) ( 965 -- 1040 ) studied the camera obscura and pinhole camera , Albertus Magnus ( 1193 -- 1280 ) discovered silver nitrate , and Georg Fabricius ( 1516 -- 71 ) discovered silver chloride .
Invented in the first decades of the 19th century , photography ( by way of the camera ) seemed able to capture more detail and information than traditional mediums , such as painting and sculpting .
After an Autochrome plate was reversal processed to produce a positive transparency , the starch grains served to illuminate each fragment with the correct color and the tiny colored points blended together in the eye , synthesizing the color of the subject by the additive method .
Kodachrome , the first modern `` integral tripack '' ( or `` monopack '' ) color film , was introduced by Kodak in 1935 .
Instant color film , used in a special camera which yielded a unique finished color print only a minute or two after the exposure , was introduced by Polaroid in 1963 .
Color photography may form images as positive transparencies , which can be used in a slide projector , or as color negatives intended for use in creating positive color enlargements on specially coated paper .
An important difference between digital and chemical photography is that chemical photography resists photo manipulation because it involves film and Photography paper , while digital imaging is a highly manipulative medium .
Photographers control the camera and lens to `` expose '' the light recording material ( such as film ) to the required amount of light to form a `` latent image '' ( on film ) or RAW file ( in digital cameras ) which , after appropriate processing , is converted to a usable image .
The camera ( or ` camera obscura ' ) is a dark room or chamber from which , as far as possible , all light is excluded except the light that forms the image .
The effective aperture is expressed by an f-number or f-stop ( derived from focal ratio ) , which is proportional to the ratio of the focal length to the diameter of the aperture .
The f-stops that might be found on a typical lens include 2.8 , 4 , 5.6 , 8 , 11 , 16 , 22 , 32 , where going up `` one stop '' ( using lower f-stop numbers ) doubles the amount of light reaching Photography , and stopping down one stop halves the amount of light .
Modified digital cameras can detect some ultraviolet , all of the visible and much of the near infrared spectrum , as most digital imaging sensors are sensitive from about 350 nm to 1000 nm .
Replacing a hot mirror or infrared blocking filter with an infrared pass or a wide spectrally transmitting filter allows the camera to detect the wider spectrum light at greater sensitivity .
Without the hot-mirror , the red , green and blue ( or cyan , yellow and magenta ) colored micro-filters placed over the sensor elements pass varying amounts of ultraviolet ( blue window ) and infrared ( primarily red and somewhat lesser the green and blue micro-filters ) .
Though most new camera designs are now digital , a new 6x6cm/6x7cm medium format film camera was introduced in 2008 in a cooperation between Fuji and Voigtländer .
In the United States , a handful of photographers , including Alfred Stieglitz , Edward Steichen , John Szarkowski , F. Holland Day , and Edward Weston , spent their lives advocating for photography as Photography .
Michal Powell 's Peeping Tom ( 1960 ) portrays the camera as both sexual and sadistically violent technology that literally kills in this picture and at the same time captures images of the pain and anguish evident on the faces of the female victims .
Postmodern philosophy is skeptical or nihilistic toward many of the values and assumptions of philosophy that derive from modernity , such as humanity having an essence which distinguishes humans from animals , or the assumption that one form of government is demonstrably better than another .
Postmodernist music , on the other hand , shares characteristics with postmodernist art -- that is , art that comes after and reacts against modernism ( see Modernism in Music ) .
Fredric Jameson , the major figure in the thinking on postmodernism and culture , calls postmodernism `` the cultural dominant of the logic of late capitalism '' ( Jameson 1991 , 46 ) , meaning that , through globalization , postmodern culture is tied inextricably with capitalism ( Mark Fisher , writing 20 years later , goes further , essentially calling it the sole cultural possibility ( Fisher 2009 , 4 ) ) .
Rotary positive displacement pumps fall into three main types : Reciprocating pumps move the fluid using one or more oscillating pistons , plungers , or membranes ( diaphragms ) , while valves restrict fluid motion to the desired direction .
Named after the Roots brothers who invented Pump , this lobe pump displaces the liquid trapped between two long helical rotors , each fitted into the other when perpendicular at 90 ° , rotating inside a triangular shaped sealing line configuration , both at the point of suction and at the point of discharge .
Adding a pulsation dampener on the pump outlet can further smooth the pump ripple , or ripple graph of a pump transducer .
Commonly seen in all areas of industry from shipping to processing , Wilden Pumps , Graco , SandPiper or ARO are generally the larger of the brands .
Devised in China as chain pumps over 1000 years ago , these pumps can be made from very simple materials : A rope , a wheel and a PVC pipe are sufficient to make a simple rope pump .
Rotodynamic pumps ( or dynamic pumps ) are a type of velocity pump in which kinetic energy is added to the fluid by increasing the flow velocity .
This increase in energy is converted to a gain in potential energy ( pressure ) when the velocity is reduced prior to or as the flow exits Pump into the discharge pipe .
This conversion of kinetic energy to pressure is explained by the First law of thermodynamics , or more specifically by Bernoulli 's principle .
A practical difference between dynamic and positive displacement pumps is how Pump operate under closed valve conditions .
Examining pump repair records and MTBF ( mean time between failures ) is of great importance to responsible and conscientious pump users .
In early 2005 , Gordon Buck , John Crane Inc. 's chief engineer for Field Operations in Baton Rouge , LA , examined the repair records for a number of refinery and chemical plants to obtain meaningful reliability data for centrifugal pumps .
Though such community pumps are no longer common , people still used the expression parish pump to describe a place or forum where matters of local interest are discussed .
At the time it was not known how cholera was transmitted , but physician John Snow suspected contaminated water and had the handle of Pump ; the outbreak then subsided .
Pump is mainly used on surface applications where the pumped fluid may contain a considerable amount of solids such as sand and dirt .
When a system design includes a centrifugal pump , an important issue Pump Pump design is matching the head loss-flow characteristic with the pump so that Pump operates at or close to the point of Pump maximum efficiency .
The SI unit for pressure is the pascal ( Pa ) , equal to one newton per square meter ( N/m2 or kg · m − 1 · s − 2 ) .
Underwater divers use the metre sea water ( msw or MSW ) and foot sea water ( fsw or FSW ) units of pressure , and these are the standard units for pressure gauges used to measure pressure exposure in diving chambers and personal decompression computers .
Where space is limited , such as on pressure gauges , name plates , graph labels , and table headings , the use of a modifier in parentheses , such as `` kPa ( gauge ) '' or `` kPa ( absolute ) '' , is permitted .
In non-SI technical work , a gauge pressure of 32 psi is sometimes written as `` 32 psig '' and Pressure as `` 32 psia '' , though the other methods explained above that avoid attaching characters to the unit of pressure are preferred .
However , whenever equation-of-state properties , such as densities or changes in densities , must be calculated , Pressure must be expressed in terms of their absolute values .
The equation is written between any two points a and b in a system that contain the same fluid .
Bubble formation deeper in Pressure requires Pressure , and therefore higher temperature , because the Pressure increases above the atmospheric pressure as the depth increases .
If water pressure at the bottom of a vase were greater than Pressure at the bottom of a neighboring vase , Pressure would force water sideways and then up the narrower vase to a higher level until the pressures at the bottom were equalized .
If there are three holes in a bucket ( top , bottom , and middle ) , then the force vectors perpendicular to the inner container surface will increase with increasing depth - that is , a greater pressure at the bottom makes Pressure so that the bottom hole will shoot water out the farthest .
Interestingly , this is the same speed the water ( or anything else ) would have if freely falling the same vertical distance h. is the kinematic pressure , where is Pressure and constant mass density .
Antibody ( Ab ) , also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ) , is a large Y-shaped protein produced by B-cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses .
In most cases , interaction of the B cell with a T helper cell is necessary to produce full activation of the B cell and , therefore , antibody generation following antigen binding .
There are several different types of antibody heavy chains , and several different kinds of antibodies , which are grouped into different isotypes based on which heavy chain Antibody possess .
The large and diverse population of Antibody is generated by random combinations of a set of gene segments that encode different antigen binding sites ( or paratopes ) , followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene , which create further diversity .
In placental mammals there are five antibody isotypes known as IgA , IgD , IgE , IgG and IgM .
Antibody are each named with an `` Ig '' prefix that stands for immunoglobulin , another name for antibody , and differ in Antibody biological properties , functional locations and ability to deal with different antigens , as depicted in the table .
Antibody have a characteristic immunoglobulin fold in which two beta sheets create a `` sandwich '' shape , held together by interactions between conserved cysteines and other charged amino acids .
There are five types of mammalian Ig heavy chain denoted by the Greek letters : α , δ , ε , γ , and μ .
Each antibody contains two light chains that are always identical ; only one type of light chain , κ or λ , is present per antibody in mammals .
Other types of light chains , such as the iota chain , are found in other vertebrates like sharks ( Chondrichthyes ) and bony fishes ( Teleostei ) .
The arms of the Y , for example , contain the sites that can bind two antigens ( in general , identical ) and , therefore , recognize specific foreign objects .
First , the binding of the antibody and complement molecules marks the microbe for ingestion by phagocytes in a process called opsonization ; these phagocytes are attracted by certain complement molecules generated in the complement cascade .
Successful recognition and eradication of many different types of microbes requires diversity among Antibody ; their amino acid composition varies allowing them to interact with many different antigens .
The region ( locus ) of a chromosome that encodes an antibody is large and contains several distinct genes for each domain of the antibody -- the locus containing heavy chain genes ( IGH @ ) is found on chromosome 14 , and the loci containing lambda and kappa light chain genes ( IGL @ and IGK @ ) are found on chromosomes 22 and 2 in humans .
Differences , between the variable domains , are located on three loops known as hypervariable regions ( HV-1 , HV-2 and HV-3 ) or complementarity determining regions ( CDR1 , CDR2 and CDR3 ) .
In these rapidly dividing cells , the genes encoding the variable domains of the heavy and light chains undergo a high rate of point mutation , by a process called somatic hypermutation ( SHM ) .
The different classes of antibody , and thus effector functions , are defined by the constant ( C ) regions of the immunoglobulin heavy chain .
Targeted monoclonal antibody therapy is employed to treat diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis , multiple sclerosis , psoriasis , and many forms of cancer including non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma , colorectal cancer , head and neck cancer and breast cancer .
However , crystallizing Antibody is often laborious and time consuming .
Online web servers such as Web Antibody Modeling ( WAM ) and Prediction of Immunoglobulin Structure ( PIGS ) enables computational modeling of antibody variable regions .
The next major advance was in the 1940s , when Linus Pauling confirmed the lock-and-key theory proposed by Ehrlich by showing that the interactions between antibodies and antigens depended more on their shape than their chemical composition .
Around the same time , antibody-binding ( Fab ) and antibody tail ( Fc ) regions of IgG were characterized by Rodney Porter .
These segments are called Polygon edges or sides , and the points where two edges meet are the polygon 's vertices ( singular : vertex ) or corners .
The word `` polygon '' derives from the Greek πολύς ( polús ) `` much '' , `` many '' and γωνία ( gōnía ) `` corner '' , `` angle '' , or γόνυ ( gónu ) `` knee '' .
Any polygon , regular or irregular , self-intersecting or simple , has as many corners as Polygon has sides .
An ordinary polygon is unbounded because the sequence closes back in Polygon in a loop or circuit , while an apeirogon ( infinite polygon ) is unbounded because Polygon goes on forever .
One great circle with one corner point added , produces a monogon or henagon .
The regular polygons were known to the ancient Greeks , and the pentagram , a non-convex regular polygon ( star polygon ) , appears on the vase of Aristophonus , Caere , dated to the 7th century B.C. Non-convex polygons in general were not systematically studied until the 14th century by Thomas Bradwardine .
Radial symmetry ( and other symmetry ) is also widely observed in the plant kingdom , particularly amongst flowers , and ( to a lesser extent ) seeds and fruit , the most common form of such symmetry being pentagonal .
The two most stable are exactly 60 degrees ahead and behind the earth in Polygon orbit ; that is , joining the center of the sun and the earth and one of these stable Lagrangian points forms an equilateral triangle .
If a square mesh has points ( vertices ) per side , there are n squared squares in the mesh , or 2n squared triangles since there are two triangles in a square .
Polygon Count : Since a polygon can have many sides and need many points to define Polygon , in order to compare one imaging system with another , `` polygon count '' is generally taken as a triangle .
Since each vertex can be augmented with other attributes ( such as color or normal ) the amount of processing involved can not be trivially inferred .
Point in Polygon test : In computer graphics and computational geometry , it is often necessary to determine whether a given point P = ( x0 , y0 ) lies inside a simple polygon given by a sequence of line segments .
Fighting games often have no unique levels to travel through only combat , so having many different characters to play with and against , that possess different moves and abilities is necessary to create a larger gameplay variety that other games may get with different levels .
Curiously , in the case of Civilization , Player character chosen historical character is the same throughout the course of the game despite the fact that a campaign can last several hundred years before and after the lifetime of the real historical persona .
The attributes of the characters ( such as magic and fighting ability ) are given as numerical values which can be increased as the gamer progresses and gains rank and experience points through accomplishing goals or fighting enemies .
Typically , this is intentionally done by the game creators so that Player character may simply imagine themself in the adventure without being required to play a character who is of a different age , race , gender , or background .
Church of England parishes are currently each within one of 44 dioceses divided between the provinces of Canterbury , 30 and York , 14 .
In England Civil parishes and Parish councils evolved in the 19th century as ecclesiastical parishes began to be relieved of what became considered to be civil responsibilities .
In New Zealand , a local grouping of Methodist churches that share one or more ministers ( which in the United Kingdom would be called a circuit ) is referred to as Parish .
Procopius witnessed the Nika riots of January , 532 , which Belisarius and Procopius fellow general Mundo repressed with a massacre in the Hippodrome .
Procopius recorded a few of the extreme weather events of 535-536 , although these were presented as a backdrop to Byzantine military activities , such as a mutiny , in and near Carthage .
Book Eight of The Wars of Justinian , and the Secret History , suggest that Procopius relationship with Belisarius seems to have cooled thereafter .
Procopius is presented as an idealised Christian emperor who built churches for the glory of God and defenses for the safety of Procopius subjects and who showed particular concern for the water supply .
The panegyric was likely written at Justinian 's behest , however , and it is doubtful that the sentiments expressed are sincere .
However , Averil Cameron has argued convincingly that Procopius ' works reflect the tensions between the classical and Christian models of history in 6th century Byzantium .
A number of historical novels based on Procopius ' works ( along with other sources ) have been written , one of which , Count Belisarius , was written by poet and novelist Robert Graves in 1938 .
This mediating relationship between individual , property and state is called as property regimes .
A title , or a right of ownership , establishes the relation between Property and other persons , assuring the owner the right to dispose of Property as the owner sees fit .
When a person finds a thing and takes that thing into that person 's possession and control , then that thing becomes a thing-for-you for that person .
The two major justifications given for original property , or the homestead principle , are effort and scarcity .
Supporters of property rights argue that this enables better protection of scarce resources , due to the tragedy of the commons , while critics argue that Property leads to the ` exploitation ' of those resources for personal gain and that Property hinders taking advantage of potential network effects .
Under United States law the principal limitations on whether and the extent to which the State may interfere with Property are set by the Constitution .
But indeed there is always a difficulty in men living together and having all human relations in common , but especially in Property having common property '' .
In later years , the ranks of Harrington 's admirers included American revolutionary and founder John Adams .
He offered some practical home-spun advice on the general subject , though , as when he referred to avarice as `` the spur of industry , '' and expressed concern about excessive levels of taxation , which `` destroy industry , by engendering despair '' .
Proudhon 's conclusion is that `` property , to be just and possible , must necessarily have equality for Property condition '' .
Strongly disputing Proudhon 's equality-based argument , Bastiat theorizes that , as a result of technological progress and the division of labor , the stock of communal wealth increases over time ; that the hours of work an unskilled laborer expends to buy e.g. 100 liters of wheat decreases over time , thus amounting to `` gratis '' satisfaction .
Police are often defined as being separate from military or other organizations involved in the defense of the state against foreign aggressors ; however , gendarmerie are military units charged with civil policing .
The prefecture system developed in both the Chu and Jin kingdoms of the Spring and Autumn period .
Among the most powerful was the league of North Castilian and Basque ports , the Hermandad de las marismas : Toledo , Talavera , and Villarreal .
The Statute of Winchester of 1285 is also cited as the primary legislation regulating the policing of the country between the Norman Conquest and the Metropolitan Police Act 1829 .
Police became a model for the police forces in most countries , such as the United States , and most of the British Empire .
Police was in charge of demographic concerns and needed to be incorporated within the western political philosophy system of raison d'état and therefore giving the superficial appearance of empowering the population ( and unwittingly supervising the population ) , which , according to mercantilist theory , was to be the main strength of the state .
On July 9 , 1775 a Cavalry Regiment was created in Minas Gerais for maintaining law and order .
In some cases , police are assigned to work `` undercover '' , where Police conceal Police police identity to investigate crimes , such as organized crime or narcotics crime , that are unsolvable by other means .
This is done in part based upon the perception that the most important and essential police work is accomplished on patrol in which officers become acquainted with their beats , prevent crime by their presence , respond to crimes in progress , manage crises , and practice their skills .
The London Metropolitan police 's Specialist Firearms Command ( CO19 ) is a group of armed police used in dangerous situations including hostage taking , armed robbery/assault and terrorism .
In Saudi Arabia , the Mutaween actively prevent the practice or proselytizing of non-Islamic religions within Saudi Arabia , where they are banned .
The interests of public police agencies in cross-border co-operation in the control of political radicalism and ordinary law crime were primarily initiated in Europe , which eventually led to the establishment of Interpol before the Second World War .
By 1992 , with the signing of the Schengen Treaty , which formalized aspects of police information exchange across the territory of the European Union , there were worries that much , if not all , of this intelligence sharing was opaque , raising questions about the efficacy of the accountability mechanisms governing police information sharing in Europe ( Joubert and Bevers , 1996 ) .
James Sheptycki has analyzed the effects of the new information technologies on the organization of policing-intelligence and suggests that a number of ` organizational pathologies ' have arisen that make the functioning of security-intelligence processes in transnational policing deeply problematic .
Police development-aid to weak , failed or failing states is another form of transnational policing that has garnered attention .
The use of firearms or deadly force is typically a last resort only to be used when necessary to save human life , although some jurisdictions ( such as Brazil ) allow Police use against fleeing felons and escaped convicts .
The advent of the police car , two-way radio , and telephone in the early 20th century transformed policing into a reactive strategy that focused on responding to calls for service .
Broken windows policing was another , related approach introduced in the 1980s by James Q. Wilson and George L. Kelling , who suggested that police should pay greater attention to minor `` quality of life '' offenses and disorderly conduct .
The court further held that during an investigatory stop Police search `` is confined to what is minimally necessary to determine whether a suspect is armed , and the intrusion , which is made for the sole purpose of protecting himself and others nearby , is confined to ascertaining the presence of weapons `` ( U.S. Supreme Court ) .
This means that a newly appointed constable has the same arrest powers as a Chief Constable or Commissioner .
The Special Investigations Unit of Ontario , Canada , is one of only a few civilian agencies around the world responsible for investigating circumstances involving police and civilians that have resulted in a death , serious injury , or allegations of sexual assault .
Incidents such as the 1965 Watts Riots , the videotaped 1991 beating by Los Angeles Police officers of Rodney King , and the riot following their acquittal have been suggested by some people to be evidence that U.S. police are dangerously lacking in appropriate controls .
Some countries , such as Chile , Israel , the Philippines , France , Austria , New Zealand and South Africa , use a centralized system of policing .
Other countries where jurisdiction of multiple police agencies overlap , include Guardia Civil and the Policía Nacional in Spain , the Polizia di Stato and Carabinieri in Italy and the Police Nationale and National Gendarmerie in France .
PDP-10 main operating systems , TOPS-10 and TENEX , were used to build out the early ARPANET .
This was joined in 1975 by the higher-performance KL10 ( later faster variants ) , which was built from ECL , was microprogrammed , and had cache memory .
A smaller , less expensive model , PDP-10 , was introduced in 1978 , using TTL and Am2901 bit-slice components and including the PDP-11 Unibus to connect peripherals .
This allowed each half of a user 's address space to be limited to a set section of main memory , designated by the base physical address and size .
While many attributed the success of the PDP-11 to DEC 's decision to make the PDP-11 Unibus an open architecture , DEC reverted to prior philosophy with the KL , making MASSbus both unique and proprietary .
The first operating system that took advantage of the Model B 's capabilities was TOPS-20 release 3 , and user mode extended addressing was offered in TOPS-20 release 4 .
The final upgrade to PDP-10 was the MCA25 upgrade of a 2060 to 2065 ( or a 1091 to 1095 ) , which gave some performance increases for programs which run in multiple sections .
The `` PC Word '' consists of a 13-bit condition register ( plus 5 always zero bits ) in the left half and an 18-bit Program Counter in the right half .
A word structured as a `` count '' half and a `` pointer '' half facilitates the use of bounded regions of memory , notably stacks .
A more elaborate example is HLROM ( Half Left to Right , Ones to Memory ) , which takes the Left half of the register contents , places them in the Right half of the memory location , and replaces the left half of the memory location with Ones .
The mnemonics for these instructions all start with JUMP , JUMPA meaning `` jump always '' and JUMP meaning `` jump never '' - as a consequence of the symmetrical design of the instruction set , PDP-10 contains several no-ops such as JUMP .
Some smaller instruction classes include the shift/rotate instructions and the procedure call instructions .
See the `` References '' section on the LISP article -- the 36-bit word size of the PDP-6 and PDP-10 was influenced by the programming convenience of having 2 LISP pointers , each 18 bits , in one word .
The software for simulation of historical computers SIMH contains a module to emulate the KS10 CPU on a Windows or Unix-based machine .
There were some significant internal differences between the earlier KL10 Model A processors , used in the earlier DECsystem-10 's running on KL10 processors , and the later KL10 Model Bs , used for the DECSYSTEM-20s .
Alessandro Scarlatti ( 2 May 1660 -- 24 October 1725 ) was an Italian Baroque composer especially famous for Alessandro Scarlatti operas and chamber cantatas .
Scarlatti 's music forms an important link between the early Baroque Italian vocal styles of the 17th century , with their centers in Florence , Venice and Rome , and the classical school of the 18th century .
Mitridate Eupatore , accounted Alessandro Scarlatti masterpiece , composed for Venice in 1707 , contains music far in advance of anything that Scarlatti had written for Naples , both in technique and in intellectual power .
The later Neapolitan operas ( L'amor volubile e tiranno 1709 ; La principessa fedele 1710 ; Tigrane , 1714 , & c. ) are showy and effective rather than profoundly emotional ; the instrumentation marks a great advance on previous work , since the main duty of accompanying the voice is thrown upon the string quartet , the harpsichord being reserved exclusively for the noisy instrumental ritornelli .
Alessandro Scarlatti few remaining masses ( the story of Alessandro Scarlatti having composed two hundred is hardly credible ) and church music in general are comparatively unimportant , except the great St Cecilia Mass ( 1721 ) , which is one of the first attempts at the style which reached its height in the great masses of Johann Sebastian Bach and Beethoven .
Programmed Data Processor ( PDP ) was a series of minicomputers made and marketed by the Digital Equipment Corporation from 1957 to 1990 .
The name ` PDP ' intentionally avoided the use of the term ` computer ' because , at the time of the first PDPs , computers had a reputation of being large , complicated , and expensive machines , and the venture capitalists behind Digital ( especially Georges Doriot ) would not support Digital 's attempting to build a `` computer '' ; the word `` minicomputer '' had not yet been coined .
A primary mirror ( or primary ) is the principal light-gathering surface ( Primary mirror ) of a reflecting telescope .
In other words , we are urged to believe that Plato 's theory of ideas is an abstraction , divorced from the so-called external world , of modern European philosophy , despite the fact Plato taught that ideas are ultimately real , and different from non-ideal things -- indeed , he argued for a distinction between the ideal and non-ideal realm .
For the Neoplatonist Platonic idealism also formed a raw material for the writing of more systematic treatises in which were given arguments and means by which to struggle against some defect ( such as anger , envy , gossip , flattery ) or to overcome some difficult circumstance ( such as a mourning , an exile , downfall , disgrace ) .
The absence in this thesis of clear distinction between mathematical and nonmathematical `` creation '' leaves open the inference that Platonic idealism applies to allegedly creative endeavors in art , music , and literature .
It is unknown if Plato 's ideas of idealism have some earlier origin , but Plato held Pythagoras in high regard , and Pythagoras as well as his followers in the movement known as Pythagoreanism claimed the world was literally built up from numbers , an abstract , absolute form .
Proteins differ from one another primarily in their sequence of amino acids , which is dictated by the nucleotide sequence of their genes , and which usually results in folding of the protein into a specific three-dimensional structure that determines Protein activity .
A polypeptide is a single linear polymer chain of amino acids bonded together by peptide bonds between the carboxyl and amino groups of adjacent amino acid residues .
In general , the genetic code specifies 20 standard amino acids ; however , in certain organisms the genetic code can include selenocysteine and -- in certain archaea -- pyrrolysine .
Protein may be purified from other cellular components using a variety of techniques such as ultracentrifugation , precipitation , electrophoresis , and chromatography ; the advent of genetic engineering has made possible a number of methods to facilitate purification .
The side chains of the standard amino acids , detailed in the list of standard amino acids , have a great variety of chemical structures and properties ; Protein is the combined effect of all of the amino acid side chains in a protein that ultimately determines Protein three-dimensional structure and Protein chemical reactivity .
In prokaryotes the mRNA may either be used as soon as Protein is produced , or be bound by a ribosome after having moved away from the nucleoid .
A special case of intramolecular hydrogen bonds within proteins , poorly shielded from water attack and hence promoting Protein own dehydration , are called dehydrons .
This binding ability is mediated by the tertiary structure of the protein , which defines the binding site pocket , and by the chemical properties of the surrounding amino acids ' side chains .
Although enzymes can consist of hundreds of amino acids , Protein is usually only a small fraction of the residues that come in contact with the substrate , and an even smaller fraction -- three to four residues on average -- that are directly involved in catalysis .
Many ion channel proteins are specialized to select for only a particular ion ; for example , potassium and sodium channels often discriminate for only one of the two ions .
This process usually begins with cell lysis , in which a cell 's membrane is disrupted and Protein internal contents released into a solution known as a crude lysate .
The level of purification can be monitored using various types of gel electrophoresis if the desired protein 's molecular weight and isoelectric point are known , by spectroscopy if Protein has distinguishable spectroscopic features , or by enzyme assays if Protein has enzymatic activity .
With the use of fluorescently tagged versions of these markers or of antibodies to known markers , Protein becomes much simpler to identify the localization of a protein of interest .
Key experimental techniques in proteomics include 2D electrophoresis , which allows the separation of a large number of proteins , mass spectrometry , which allows rapid high-throughput identification of Protein and sequencing of peptides ( most often after in-gel digestion ) , protein microarrays , which allow the detection of the relative levels of a large number of proteins present in a cell , and two-hybrid screening , which allows the systematic exploration of protein -- protein interactions .
Protein is only a small fraction of the residues that come in contact with the substrate , and an even smaller fraction -- three to four residues on average -- that are directly involved in catalysis .
Quantum chemistry , a subfield of physical chemistry especially concerned with the application of quantum mechanics to chemical problems , provides tools to determine how strong and what shape bonds are , how nuclei move , and how light can be absorbed or emitted by a chemical compound .
This is studied in chemical thermodynamics , which sets limits on quantities like how far a reaction can proceed , or how much energy can be converted into work in a combustion engine and which provides links between properties like the thermal expansion coefficient and change of rate in entropy with pressure for a gas or a liquid .
To a limited extent , quasi-equilibrium and non-equilibrium thermodynamics can describe irreversible changes .
See Group contribution method , Lydersen method , Joback method , Benson group increment theory , QSPR , QSAR Historical journals that covered both chemistry and physics include Annales de chimie et de physique ( started in 1789 , published under the name given here from 1815 -- 1914 ) .
Perimeters for more general shapes can be calculated as any path with where is the length of Perimeter and is an infinitesimal line element .
A regular polygon may be defined by the number of Perimeter sides and by Perimeter radius , that is to say , the constant distance between Perimeter centre and each of Perimeter vertices .
If R is a regular polygon 's radius and n is the number of Perimeter sides , then Perimeter perimeter is The perimeter of a circle , often called the circumference , is proportional to Perimeter diameter and Perimeter radius .
The search for the digits of is relevant to many fields , such as mathematical analysis , algorithmics and computer science .
In general , the polygon with n sides having the largest area and a given perimeter is the regular polygon , which is closer to being a circle than is an irregular polygon .
Because Phase (matter) relate to changes in the organization of matter , such as a change from liquid to solid or a more subtle change from one crystal structure to another , this latter usage is similar to the use of `` phase '' as a synonym for Phase (matter) .
A mixture of water ( a polar liquid ) and oil ( a non-polar liquid ) will spontaneously separate into two phases .
At room temperature and pressure , the water jar reaches equilibrium when the air over the water has a humidity of about 3 % .
In this simple system , which phases that are possible depends only on pressure and temperature .
In the diagram , the blue line marking the boundary between liquid and gas does not continue indefinitely , but terminates at a point called the critical point .
Above the critical point , there are no longer separate liquid and gas phases : there is only a generic fluid phase referred to as a supercritical fluid .
At the point where liquid begins to condense , the direction of the temperature and pressure curve will abruptly change to trace along the phase line until all of the water has condensed .
The heat energy , or enthalpy , associated with a solid to liquid transition is the enthalpy of fusion and that associated with a solid to gas transition is the enthalpy of sublimation .
Physics alongwith Mathematics and Chemistry is one of the `` fundamental sciences '' because the other natural sciences like biology , geology etc. , deal with systems that seem to obey the laws of physics .
( Note : Astronomy should not be confused with astrology , which assumes that people 's destiny and human affairs in general are correlated to the apparent positions of astronomical objects in the sky -- although the two fields share a common origin , Outline of physical science are quite different ; astronomers embrace the scientific method , while astrologers do not .
Gasoline , or petrol , is a transparent , petroleum-derived oil that is used primarily as a fuel in internal combustion engines .
Modern automobiles are also equipped with an evaporative emissions control system ( ` EVAP system ' in automotive jargon ) , which collects evaporated fuel from the fuel tank in a charcoal-filled canister while the engine is stopped , and then releases the collected vapors to the engine for consumption when the engine is running ( usually after Gasoline has reached normal operating temperature ) .
A higher octane rating allows a higher compression ratio or supercharger boost , and thus higher temperatures and pressures , which translate to higher power output .
On average , about 74 L of gasoline ( 19.5 US gal , 16.3 imp gal ) are available from a barrel of crude oil ( about 46 % by volume ) , varying due to quality of crude and grade of gasoline .
Gasoline , when used in high-compression internal combustion engines , has a tendency to autoignite ( detonate ) causing damaging `` engine knocking '' ( also called `` pinging '' or `` pinking '' ) noise .
With the discovery of the extent of environmental and health damage caused by the lead , however , and the incompatibility of lead with catalytic converters found on virtually all newly sold US automobiles since 1975 , this practice began to wane ( encouraged by many governments introducing differential tax rates ) in the 1980s .
Until late 2010 , fuels retailers were only authorized to sell fuel containing up to 10 percent ethanol ( E10 ) , and most vehicle warranties ( except for flexible fuel vehicles ) authorize fuels that contain no more than 10 percent ethanol .
In the United States , aviation gasoline ( avgas ) is dyed to identify Gasoline octane rating and to distinguish Gasoline from kerosene-based jet fuel , which is clear .
Since producing bioethanol from fermented sugars and starches involves distillation , though , ordinary people in much of Europe can not legally ferment and distill their own bioethanol at present ( unlike in the US , where getting a BATF distillation permit has been easy since the 1973 oil crisis ) .
Like other alkanes , gasoline burns in a limited range of Gasoline vapor phase and , coupled with Gasoline volatility , this makes leaks highly dangerous when sources of ignition are present .
From 1998 to 2004 , the price of gasoline fluctuated between $ 1 and $ 2 USD per U.S. gallon .
Among states , the highest gasoline tax rates , including the federal taxes as of 2005 , are New York ( 62.9 cents / gal ) , Hawaii ( 60.1 cents / gal ) , and California ( 60 cents / gal ) .
The Associated Press said premium gas -- which is a higher octane and costs several cents a gallon more than regular unleaded -- should be used only if the manufacturer says Gasoline is `` required '' .
The 2-ketopentoses have two chiral centers , and therefore four different stereoisomers are possible .
Ribose is a constituent of RNA , and the related deoxyribose of DNA .
On March 31 , the New York Times reported on Snelling 's work with liquefied gas and that '' ... a steel bottle will carry enough gas to light an ordinary home for three weeks '' .
In 2004 it was reported to be a growing $ 8-billion to $ 10-billion industry with over of propane being used annually in the U.S. The `` prop - '' root found in Propane and names of other compounds with three-carbon chains was derived from `` propionic acid '' .
The density of liquid propane at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) is 0.493 g/cm3 , which is equivalent to 4.11 pounds per U.S. liquid gallon or 493 grams per litre .
Propane expands at 1.5 % per 10 ° F. Thus , liquid propane has a density of approximately 4.2 pounds per gallon at 60 ° F. Propane is a popular choice for barbecues and portable stoves because the low boiling point of -42 C makes it vaporize as soon as it is released from Propane pressurized container .
This is the HD-5 standard , ( Heavy Duty-5 % maximum allowable propylene content , and no more than 5 % butanes and ethane ) defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials by its Standard 1835 for internal combustion engines .
In Mexico , for example , where much of the bottled liquified gas sold is in fact butane , gas labelled `` propane '' may actually consist of 60 % propane and 40 % butane .
The warmer the country , the higher the butane content , commonly 50/50 and sometimes reaching 75 % butane .
When used for heating or grain drying Propane is usually stored in a large , permanently placed cylinder which is recharged by a propane-delivery truck .
In North America , local delivery trucks with an average tank size of 3,000 USgal , fill up large tanks that are permanently installed on the property , or other service trucks exchange empty cylinders of propane with filled cylinders .
Blends of pure , dry `` isopropane '' ( R-290a ) ( isobutane/propane mixtures ) and isobutane ( R-600a ) have negligible ozone depletion potential and very low Global Warming Potential ( having a value of 3.3 times the GWP of carbon dioxide ) and can serve as a functional replacement for R-12 , R-22 , R-134a , and other chlorofluorocarbon or hydrofluorocarbon refrigerants in conventional stationary refrigeration and air conditioning systems .
A further saving for propane fuel vehicle operators , especially in fleets , is that pilferage is much more difficult than with gasoline or diesel fuels .
Relatively little is known about the Precambrian , despite Precambrian making up roughly seven-eighths of the Earth 's history , and what is known has largely been discovered in the past 50 years .
This is because many Precambrian rocks are heavily metamorphosed , obscuring Precambrian origins , while others have either been destroyed by erosion , or remain deeply buried beneath Phanerozoic strata .
It is thought that the Earth Precambrian coalesced from material in orbit around the Sun roughly 4500 Ma ( 4.5 Ga ) and may have been struck by a very large ( Mars-sized ) planetesimal shortly after Precambrian formed , splitting off material that came together to form the Moon ( see Giant impact hypothesis ) .
Excepting a few contested reports of much older forms from USA and India , the first complex multicellular life forms seem to have appeared roughly 600 Ma .
A quite diverse collection of soft-bodied forms is known from a variety of locations worldwide between 542 and 600 Ma .
The polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) is a biochemical technology in molecular biology to amplify a single or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude , generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence .
Primers ( short DNA fragments ) containing sequences complementary to the target region along with a DNA polymerase ( after which the method is named ) are key components to enable selective and repeated amplification .
Most PCR methods typically amplify DNA fragments of between 0.1 and 10 kilo base pairs ( kb ) , although some techniques allow for amplification of fragments up to 40 kb in size .
A basic PCR set up requires several components and reagents .
Many modern thermal cyclers make use of the Peltier effect , which permits both heating and cooling of the block holding the PCR tubes simply by reversing the electric current .
These include the enzyme used for DNA synthesis , the concentration of divalent ions and dNTPs in the reaction , and the melting temperature ( Tm ) of the primers .
To check whether Polymerase chain reaction generated the anticipated DNA fragment ( also sometimes referred to as the amplimer or amplicon ) , agarose gel electrophoresis is employed for size separation of the PCR products .
A related patent battle over the Taq polymerase enzyme is still ongoing in several jurisdictions around the world between Roche and Promega .
The legal arguments have extended beyond the lives of the original PCR and Taq polymerase patents , which expired on March 28 , 2005 .
The proposed rail project , when completed , was the most intensive and ambitious of Pacific Scandal kind ever undertaken to date .
However , a route across the Canadian Shield was highly unpopular with potential investors not only in the United States , but also in Canada and especially Great Britain which was the only other viable source of financing .
The problem lay in that Allan and Sir John A. Macdonald highly , and secretly , were in cahoots with American financiers such as George W. McMullen and Jay Cooke , men who were deeply interested in the rival American undertaking , the Northern Pacific Railroad .
In making such allegations , the Liberals and their allies in the press ( in particular , George Brown 's newspaper the Globe ) presumed that most of the money had been used to bribe voters in the 1872 election .
In eukaryotic primer removal , DNA polymerase δ extends the Okazaki fragment in 5 ' to 3 ' direction , and when Primer (molecular biology) encounters the RNA primer from the previous Okazaki fragment , displacing the 5 ′ end of the primer into a single-stranded RNA flap , which is removed by nuclease cleavage .
The length of primers is usually not more than 30 ( usually 18 -- 24 ) nucleotides , and Primer (molecular biology) need to match the beginning and the end of the DNA fragment to be amplified .
The free NCBI tool Primer-BLAST integrates primer design tool and BLAST search into one application , so does commercial software product such as ePrime , Beacon Designer .
Primer (molecular biology) should also not anneal strongly to themselves , as internal hairpins and loops could hinder the annealing with the template DNA .
Therefore primer sequence corresponding to the amino acid isoleucine might be `` ATH '' , where A stands for adenine , T for thymine , and H for adenine , thymine , or cytosine , according to the genetic code for each codon , using the IUPAC symbols for degenerate bases .
Purines , including substituted purines and Purine tautomers , are the most widely occurring nitrogen-containing heterocycle in nature .
Two of the five bases in nucleic acids , adenine ( 2 ) and guanine ( 3 ) , are purines .
Uric acid ( 8 ) was reacted with PCl5 to give 2,6,8-trichloropurine ( 10 ) , which was converted with HI and PH4I to give 2,6-diiodopurine ( 11 ) .
Defects in enzymes that control purine production and breakdown can severely alter a cell 's DNA sequences , which may explain why people who carry certain genetic variants of purine metabolic enzymes have a higher risk for some types of cancer .
The Traube purine synthesis ( 1900 ) is a classic reaction ( named after Wilhelm Traube ) between an amine-substituted pyrimidine and formic acid .
Reaction of the former with amidines to give 2-substituted pyrimidines , with urea to give 2-pyrimidiones , and guanidines to give 2-aminopyrimidines are typical .
In RNA , the complement of adenine ( A ) is uracil ( U ) instead of thymine ( T ) , so the pairs that form are adenine : uracil and guanine : cytosine .
Other hydrogen bonding modes ( `` wobble pairings '' ) are available in both DNA and RNA , although the additional 2 ' - hydroxyl group of RNA expands the configurations , through which RNA can form hydrogen bonds .
Play-by-mail game games , sometimes known as `` Play-by-post '' , are games , of any type , played through postal mail or email .
More complex games , moderated entirely or partially by computer programs , were pioneered by Rick Loomis of Flying Buffalo in 1970 .
Bob McLain , the publisher and editor of Gaming Universal , further popularized the hobby by writing articles that appeared in many of the leading mainstream gaming magazines of the time .
Because planned actions can typically only be submitted at a fixed maximum frequency ( e.g. , once every few days or every few weeks ) , the number of discrete actions is limited compared to real-time games .
The main advantage of this is that the players can be presented with a graphical representation of the game and an interactive interface to guide them through their turn .
Play-by-mail game is games , of any type , played through postal mail or email .
In computing , a plug-in ( or plugin ) is a software component that adds a specific feature to an existing software application .
The Adobe Photoshop and After Effects Plug-in (computing) APIs have become a standard and competing applications such as Corel Paint Shop Pro have adopted them .
The same distinction between plug-ins and extensions is in use by other web browsers , such as Microsoft Internet Explorer , where a typical extension might be a new toolbar , and Plug-in (computing) might embed a video player on the page .
Since plug-ins and extensions both increase the utility of the original application , Mozilla uses the term `` add-on as an inclusive category of augmentation modules that consists of plug-ins , themes , and search engines .
From 1905 to 1908 , Pierre Teilhard de Chardin taught physics and chemistry in Cairo , Egypt , at the Jesuit College of the Holy Family .
Pierre Teilhard de Chardin thesis treated of the mammals of the French lower Eocene and their stratigraphy .
In 1923 Pierre Teilhard de Chardin traveled to China with Father Emile Licent , who was in charge in Tianjin of a significant laboratory collaboration between the Natural History Museum in Paris and Marcellin Boule 's laboratory .
Henri Breuil and Pierre Teilhard de Chardin discovered that the Peking Man , the nearest relative of Pithecanthropus from Java , was a faber ( worker of stones and controller of fire ) .
In Pierre Teilhard de Chardin posthumously published book , The Phenomenon of Man , Teilhard writes of the unfolding of the material cosmos , from primordial particles to the development of life , human beings and the noosphere , and finally to Pierre Teilhard de Chardin vision of the Omega Point in the future , which is `` pulling '' all creation towards it .
Pierre Teilhard de Chardin points to the societal problems of isolation and marginalization as huge s of evolution , especially since evolution requires a unification of consciousness .
Pierre Teilhard de Chardin also states that `` evolution is an ascent toward consciousness '' , giving encephalization as an example of early stages , and therefore , signifies a continuous upsurge toward the Omega Point , which for all intents and purposes , is God .
A building at the University of Manchester is named after Pierre Teilhard de Chardin , as are residence dormitories at Gonzaga University and Seattle University .
Robert Wright , in Pierre Teilhard de Chardin book , compares Pierre Teilhard de Chardin own naturalistic thesis that biological and cultural evolution are directional and , possibly , purposeful , with Teilhard 's ideas .
Phutball ( short for Philosopher 's Football ) is a two-player strategy board game described in Elwyn Berlekamp , John Horton Conway , and Richard Guy 's Winning Ways for your Mathematical Plays .
Phutball is played on the intersections of a 19 × 15 grid using one white stone and as many black stones as needed .
In this article the two players are named Ohs ( O ) and Eks ( X ) .
A move is either to add a man to any vacant point on Phutball or to move the ball .
If the football ends the move on or over the opponent 's goal line then a goal has been scored .
In the first centuries BCE and CE , papyrus scrolls gained a rival as a writing surface in the form of parchment , which was prepared from animal skins .
Unless Papyrus was of perfect quality , the writing surface was irregular , and the range of media that could be used was also limited .
Papyrus was replaced in Europe by the cheaper , locally produced products parchment and vellum , of significantly higher durability in moist climates , though Henri Pirenne 's connection of Papyrus disappearance with the Muslim overrunning of Egypt is contended .
The Greek writer Theophrastus , who flourished during the 4th century BC , uses papuros when referring to the plant used as a foodstuff and bublos for the same plant when used for nonfood products , such as cordage , basketry , or writing surfaces .
The word pixel is based on a contraction of pix ( `` pictures '' ) and el ( for `` element '' ) ; similar formations with el for `` element '' include the words voxel and texel .
The word `` pixel '' was first published in 1965 by Frederic C. Billingsley of JPL , to describe the picture elements of video images from space probes to the Moon and Mars .
Pixel , or color samples , that form a digitized image ( such as a JPEG file used on a web page ) may or may not be in one-to-one correspondence with screen pixels , depending on how a computer displays Pixel .
In some displays , such as LCD , LED , and plasma displays , these single-color regions are separately addressable elements , which have come to be known as subpixels .
Most digital camera image sensors use single-color sensor regions , for example using the Bayer filter pattern , and in the camera industry these are known as Pixel just like in the display industry , not subpixels .
For example , a camera that makes a 2048 × 1536 pixel image typically uses a few extra rows and columns of sensor elements and is commonly said to have `` 3.2 megapixels '' or `` 3.4 megapixels '' , depending on whether the number reported is the `` effective '' or the `` total '' pixel count ( as opposed to the 2048 × 1536 = 3,145,728 finished image pixels ) .
A prime number ( or a prime ) is a natural number greater than 1 that has no positive divisors other than 1 and Prime number .
The first result in that direction is the prime number theorem , proven at the end of the 19th century , which says that the probability that a given , randomly chosen number is prime is inversely proportional to Prime number number of digits , or to the logarithm of n .
A natural number ( i.e. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , etc. ) is called a prime or a prime number if Prime number has exactly two positive divisors , 1 and the number Prime number .
No even number greater than 2 is prime because by definition , any such number has at least three distinct divisors , namely 1 , 2 , and .
Therefore , the condition of being a prime can also be restated as : a number is prime if Prime number is greater than one and if none of divides ( without remainder ) .
There are hints in the surviving records of the ancient Egyptians that they had some knowledge of prime numbers : the Egyptian fraction expansions in the Rhind papyrus , for instance , have quite different forms for primes and for composites .
Euclid 's Elements ( circa 300 BC ) contain important theorems about primes , including the infinitude of primes and the fundamental theorem of arithmetic .
At the start of the 19th century , Legendre and Gauss independently conjectured that as x tends to infinity , the number of primes up to x is asymptotic to x/ln ( x ) , where ln ( x ) is the natural logarithm of x.
This theorem says that for any prime number p and any integer a not divisible by p , is divisible by p. Thus , if is not divisible by n , n can not be prime .
Dirichlet 's theorem on arithmetic progressions , in Prime number basic form , asserts that linear polynomials with coprime integers a and b take infinitely many prime values .
However , computing A or μ requires the knowledge of infinitely many primes to begin with .
For a long time , number theory in general , and the study of prime numbers in particular , was seen as the canonical example of pure mathematics , with no applications outside of the self-interest of studying the topic .
An example from the theory of finite groups are the Sylow theorems : if G is a finite group and pn is the highest power of the prime p that divides the order of G , then G has a subgroup of order pn .
If Magicicadas appeared at a non-prime number intervals , say every 12 years , then predators appearing every 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 , or 12 years would be sure to meet them .
An element p of R is called prime element if Prime number is neither zero nor a unit ( i.e. , does not have a multiplicative inverse ) and satisfies the following requirement : given x and y in R such that p divides the product xy , then p divides x or y .
Not every prime ( in Z ) is a Gaussian prime : in the bigger ring Zi , 2 factors into the product of the two Gaussian primes ( 1 + i ) and ( 1 − i ) .
For example , the p-adic valuation of a rational number q is defined to be the integer vp ( q ) , such that where both r and s are not divisible by p.
The act is written and narrated by writer Logan Hill who , as a 12-year old , was consumed with reading Anthony 's novels .
In a manuscript written between 1456 and 1461 , an unknown mathematician recorded the earliest reference to a fifth perfect number , with 33,550,336 being correctly identified for the first time .
Parthenon itself replaced an older Parthenon , which historians call the Pre-Parthenon or Older Parthenon , that was destroyed in the Persian invasion of 480 BC .
These sculptures , now known as the Elgin Marbles or Parthenon Marbles , were sold in 1816 to the British Museum in London , where they are now displayed .
The epithet parthénos , whose origin is also unclear , meant `` maiden , girl '' , but also `` virgin , unmarried woman '' and was especially used for Artemis , the goddess of wild animals , the hunt , and vegetation , and for Athena , the goddess of strategy and tactics , handicraft , and practical reason .
Parthenon , an octostyle , peripteral Doric temple with Ionic architectural features , housed the chryselephantine statue of Athena Parthenos sculpted by Phidias and dedicated in 439 or 438 BC .
By the year 438 , the sculptural decoration of the Doric metopes on the frieze above the exterior colonnade , and of the Ionic frieze around the upper portion of the walls of the cella , had been completed .
The metopes of the east side of Parthenon , above the main entrance , depict the Gigantomachy ( mythical battles between the Olympian gods and the Giants ) .
The distinction between gods and humans is blurred in the conceptual interplay between the idealism and naturalism bestowed on the stone by the sculptors .
The `` older Parthenon '' , as it is frequently referred to , was still under construction when the Persians sacked the city in 480 BC and razed the Acropolis .
A small shrine has been excavated within Parthenon , on the site of an older sanctuary probably dedicated to Athena as a way to get closer to the god , but Parthenon never hosted the cult of Athena Polias , patron of Athens : the cult image , which was bathed in the sea and to which was presented the peplos , was an olivewood xoanon , located at an older altar on the northern side of the Acropolis .
The spaces between the columns of the opisthodomus and the peristyle were walled up though a number of doorways still permitted access .
Despite the alterations accompanying the Parthenon 's conversion into a church and subsequently a mosque , Parthenon structure had remained basically intact .
In 1667 the Turkish traveler Evliya Çelebi expressed marvel at Parthenon sculptures and figuratively described the building as `` like some impregnable fortress not made by human agency '' .
Accounts written at the time conflict over whether this destruction was deliberate or accidental ; one such account , written by the German officer Sobievolski , states that a Turkish deserter revealed to Morosini the use to which the Turks had put Parthenon expecting that the Venetians would not target a building of such historic importance .
What they produced was the first measured drawings of the Parthenon published in 1787 in the second volume of Antiquities of Athens Measured and Delineated .
In 1801 , the British Ambassador at Constantinople , the Earl of Elgin , obtained a firman ( edict ) from the Sultan to make casts and drawings of the antiquities on the Acropolis , to demolish recent buildings if this was necessary to view the antiquities , and to remove sculptures from them .
According to Pachomius hagiography , Pachomius was swept up against Pachomius will in a Roman army recruitment drive at the age of 20 , a common occurrence during the turmoils and civil wars of the period , and with several other recruits , put on board a vessel that was falling down the river .
Pachomius established Pachomius first monastery between 318 and 323 .
Pachomius was visited once by Basil of Caesarea who took many of Pachomius ideas and implemented them in Caesarea , where Basil also made some adaptations that became the ascetic rule , or Ascetica , the rule still used today by the Eastern Orthodox Church , and comparable to that of the Rule of St. Benedict in the West .
During the 3rd and 4th centuries many ecclesiastics and monks wrote in Coptic , among them , St. Pachomius , whose monastic rule ( the first cenobitic rule , for solitary monks gathered in communities ) survives only in Coptic .
He then sets out throughout the rest of the book to demonstrate the limitations of this conception , including , he argues , many traditional philosophical puzzles and confusions that arise as a result of this limited picture .
-- Philosophical Investigations is in this and similar ways that one operates with words -- `` But how does he know where and how he is to look up the word ` red ' and what he is to do with the word ` five ' ?
The German word for `` game '' , '' '' , has a different sense than in English ; the meaning of `` Spiele '' also extends to the concept of `` play '' and `` playing '' .
Rather , that one is following a rule or not is to be decided by looking to see if the actions conform to the expectations in the particular form of life in which one is involved .
The usual example is that of a language in which one names one 's sensations and other subjective experiences , such that the meaning of the term is decided by the individual alone .
One common interpretation of the argument is that while one may have direct or privileged access to one 's current mental states , there is no such infallible access to identifying previous mental states that one had in the past .
Often , what is widely regarded as a deep philosophical problem will vanish , argues Wittgenstein , and eventually be seen as a confusion about the significance of the words that philosophers use to frame such problems and questions .
Wittgenstein suggests that , in such a situation , the word `` beetle '' could not be the name of a thing , because supposing that each person has something completely different in their boxes ( or nothing at all ) does not change the meaning of the word ; the beetle as a private object `` drops out of consideration as irrelevant '' .
Kripke 's version of Wittgenstein , although philosophically interesting , has been facetiously called Kripkenstein , with some scholars such as Gordon Baker and Peter Hacker , Colin McGinn , and John McDowell , seeing it as a radical misinterpretation of Wittgenstein 's text .
According to Wittgenstein , those who insist that consciousness ( or other apparently subjective mental states ) are conceptually unconnected to the external world are mistaken .
An example Wittgenstein uses is the `` duckrabbit '' , a picture that can be seen as either a duck or a rabbit .
Poul William Anderson ( November 25 , 1926 -- July 31 , 2001 ) was an American science fiction author who began Poul Anderson career during one of the Golden Ages of the genre and continued to write and remain popular into the 21st century .
Perhaps the best known was the planet of The Man Who Counts ; Anderson adjusted its size and composition so that humans could live in the open air but flying intelligent aliens could evolve , and Poul Anderson explored consequences of these adjustments .
The connection between space flight and freedom is clearly ( as is stated explicitly in some of the stories ) an extension of the nineteenth-century American concept of the Frontier , where malcontents can advance further and claim some new land , and pioneers either bring life to barren asteroids ( as in Tales of the Flying Mountains ) or settle on Earth-like planets teeming with life , but not intelligent forms ( such as New Europe in Star Fox ) .
In fact , several stories and books describing the aftermath of a total American victory in the Third World War , such as `` Sam Hall '' and its loose sequel `` Three Worlds to Conquer '' as well as `` Shield '' , are scarcely less bleak than the above-mentioned depictions of a Soviet victory .
In later years Poul Anderson completely repudiated this idea ( a half-humorous remnant is the beginning of Tau Zero : a future where the nations of the world entrusted Sweden with overseeing disarmament and found themselves living under the rule of the Swedish Empire ) .
A more explicit expression of the same appears in the later The Shield of Time where a time-traveling young American woman from the 1990s pays a brief visit to a university campus of the 1960s and is not enthusiastic about what she sees there .
Instead of a world government , the above-mentioned `` Shield '' resolves the problem of an American-dominated world dictatorship in a truly libertarian manner : The protagonist , who is hunted by various power groups for the secret of a personal impregnable force field which Poul Anderson brought from Mars , finally decides to simply reveal it to the entire world , so that every individual could thumb Poul Anderson or her nose at each and every Authority .
If Poul Anderson spends any time in boardrooms or plotting corporate takeovers , the reader remains ignorant of it , since virtually all Poul Anderson appearances are in the wilds of a space frontier .
The writer Sandra Miesel ( 1978 ) has argued that Anderson 's overarching theme is the struggle against entropy and the heat death of the universe , a condition of perfect uniformity where nothing can happen .
Thus , in the story `` Ivory , and Apes , and Peacocks '' , the Time Patrol 's resident agents in the Tyre of King Hiram are a twentieth-century Israeli couple , who express their wish to help the ancient Tyrians `` in order to compensate a bit for what our country is going to do here '' .
A common theme in Anderson 's works , and one with obvious origins in the Northern European legends , is that doing the `` right '' ( wisest ) thing often involves performing actions that , at face value , seem dishonorable , illegal , destructive , or downright evil .
Poul Anderson 1965 novel , The Corridors of Time , alternates between the European Stone Age and a repressive future .
Therefore , the Time Patrol protagonists , who like the young knight and wish him well ( the female protagonist comes close to falling in love with Poul Anderson ) , have no choice but to fight and ultimately kill Poul Anderson .
In The Pirate , the hero is duty-bound to deny a band of people from societies blighted by poverty the chance for a new start on a new planet , because their settling the planet would eradicate the remnants of the artistic and articulate beings who lived there before .
Panspermia proposes that life forms that can survive the effects of space , such as extremophiles , become trapped in debris that is ejected into space after collisions between planets that harbor life and Small Solar System Bodies ( SSSB ) .
In the nineteenth century Panspermia was again revived in modern form by several scientists , including Jöns Jacob Berzelius ( 1834 ) , Kelvin ( 1871 ) , Hermann von Helmholtz ( 1879 ) and , somewhat later , by Svante Arrhenius ( 1903 ) .
Sir Fred Hoyle ( 1915 -- 2001 ) and Chandra Wickramasinghe ( born 1939 ) were influential proponents of panspermia .
There is as yet no evidence to support or contradict panspermia , although the majority view holds that panspermia -- especially in Panspermia interstellar form -- is unlikely given the challenges of survival and transport in space .
The oldest known fossilized stromatolites or bacterial aggregates , are dated at 3.5 billion years old .
From analysis of lunar melts and observations of similar cratering on Mars ' highlands , Kring and Cohen suggest that the Late Heavy Bombardment was caused by asteroid impacts that affected the entire inner solar system .
Some bacteria and animals have been found to thrive in oceanic hydrothermal vents above 100 ° C ; a study revealed that a fraction of bacteria survive heating pulses up to 250 ° C in vacuo , while similar heating at normal atmospheric pressure leads to the total sterilization of samples .
Living bacteria found in core samples retrieved from 3700 m deep at Lake Vostok in Antarctica , have provided data for extrapolations to the likelihood of microorganisms surviving frozen in extraterrestrial habitats or during interplanetary transport .
On August 8 , 2011 , a report , based on NASA studies with meteorites found on Earth , was published suggesting building blocks of DNA ( adenine , guanine and related organic molecules ) may have been formed extraterrestrially in outer space .
In October 2011 , scientists reported that cosmic dust contains complex organic matter ( `` amorphous organic solids with a mixed aromatic-aliphatic structure '' ) that could be created naturally , and rapidly , by stars .
One of the scientists suggested that these complex organic compounds may have been related to the development of life on Earth and said that , `` If this is the case , life on Earth may have had an easier time getting started as these organics can serve as basic ingredients for life '' .
On August 29 , 2012 , and in a world first , astronomers at Copenhagen University reported the detection of a specific sugar molecule , glycolaldehyde , in a distant star system .
In September 2012 , NASA scientists reported that polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( PAHs ) , subjected to interstellar medium ( ISM ) conditions , are transformed , through hydrogenation , oxygenation and hydroxylation , to more complex organics - `` a step along the path toward amino acids and nucleotides , the raw materials of proteins and DNA , respectively '' .
Max Bernstein , a space scientist associated with SETI and Ames , argues the results should be interpreted with caution , noting that `` Panspermia would strain one 's credulity less to believe that terrestrial organisms had somehow been transported upwards than to assume that extraterrestrial organisms are falling inward '' .
However , these reports are disputed by Leonard D. Jaffe , who was Surveyor program scientist and custodian of the Surveyor 3 parts brought back from the Moon , stated in a letter to the Planetary Society that an unnamed member of his staff reported that a `` breach of sterile procedure '' took place at just the right time to produce a false positive result .
After determining the composition of chosen meteorites , astroecologists performed laboratory experiments that suggest that many colonizing microorganisms and some plants could obtain many of their chemical nutrients from asteroid and cometary materials .
With such materials , and energy from long-lived stars , microscopic life planted by directed panspermia could find an immense future in the galaxy .
In September 2007 , after enduring a 12-day orbital mission and a fiery reentry , the European unmanned spacecraft Foton-M3 was retrieved from a field in Kazakhstan .
The 5,500-pound capsule , seven feet in diameter , carried a payload of 43 European experiments in a range of scientific disciplines -- including fluid physics , biology , crystal growth , radiation exposure and astrobiology .
Herpin stated that Philately had been collected and studied for the previous six or seven years and a better name was required for the new hobby than timbromanie , which was disliked .
Flow through Deception Pass accounts for about 2 % of the total tidal exchange between Puget Sound and the Strait of Juan de Fuca .
The depth of the main basin , between the southern tip of Whidbey Island and Tacoma , Washington , is approximately 600 ft .
Puget Sound is defined as bounded to the north by the international boundary with Canada , and to the west by a line running north from the mouth of the Sekiu River on the Olympic Peninsula .
The most recent glacial period , called the Fraser Glaciation , had three phases , or stades .
Puget Sound shoreline is convert 1332 mi long , encompassing a water area of and a total volume of at mean high water .
Significant rivers that drain to `` Northern Puget Sound '' include the Nooksack , Dungeness , and Elwha Rivers .
The Puget Sound Agricultural Company , a subsidiary of the HBC , established farms and ranches near Fort Nisqually .
British ships such as the Beaver , exported foodstuffs and provisions from Fort Nisqually .
A unique state-run ferry system , the Washington State Ferries , connects the larger islands to the Washington mainland , as well as both sides of Puget Sound , allowing people and cars to move about the greater Puget Sound region .
The causes of these environmental issues are toxic contamination , eutrophication ( low oxygen due to excess nutrients ) , and near shore habitat changes .
Perjury , also known as forswearing , is the willful act of swearing a false oath or of falsifying an affirmation to tell the truth , whether spoken or in writing , concerning matters material to an official proceeding .
An example of this is the United States ' income tax return , which , by law , must be signed as true and correct under penalty of perjury ( see ) .
A person who before the Court of Justice of the European Communities swears anything which he knows to be false or does not believe to be true is , whatever his nationality , guilty of perjury .
A statement made on oath by a witness outside the United Kingdom and given in evidence through a live television link by virtue of section 32 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 must be treated for the purposes of section 1 as having been made in the proceedings in which Perjury is given in evidence .
The book `` Archbold '' said that it appears to be immaterial whether the court , before which the statement is made , has jurisdiction in the particular cause in which the statement is made , because there is no express requirement in the Act that the court be one of `` competent jurisdiction '' and because the definition in section 1 ( 2 ) does not appear to require this by implication either .
The immunity enjoyed by witnesses began also to be whittled down or interfered with by the parliament in England in 1540 with subornation of perjury and , in 1562 , with perjury proper .
Perjury current position in America 's legal takes the form of state and federal statutes .
While courts have specifically made clear certain instances which have succeeded or failed to meet the nebulous threshold for materiality , the topic remains unresolved in large part , except in certain legal areas where intent manifests Perjury in an abundantly clear fashion , such as with the so-called perjury trap , a specific situation in which a prosecutor calls a person to testify before a grand jury with the intent of drawing a perjurious statement from the person being questioned .
Most were open two-seater sports cars bodied by Bert Bertelli 's brother , with a small number of long-chassis four-seater tourers , dropheads and saloons also produced .
Aston Martin stayed true to its emerging `` grand touring '' style with the DB6 ( 1965 -- 70 ) , and DBS ( 1967 -- 1972 ) .
A successful turn-around strategy led to the recruitment of 360 new employees and , by 1977 , a trading profit of # 750,000 .
Ford placed Aston in the Premier Automotive Group , invested in new manufacturing and ramped up production .
In 1998 the 2,000 th DB7 was built , and in 2002 the 6,000 th , exceeding production of all previous DB models .
The group included American investment banker John Singers and two Kuwaiti companies , Investment Dar and Adeem Investment ; Prodrive had no financial involvement in the deal .
To demonstrate the V8 Vantage 's durability across hazardous terrain and promote the car in China , the first east-west crossing of the Asian Highway was undertaken between June and August 2007 .
Aston Martin V8 and V12 engines are still manufactured by Ford in Cologne , Germany by an agreement that lasts until 2013 .
Phosphate carries a negative three formal charge and is the conjugate base of the hydrogen phosphate ion , , which is the conjugate base of , the dihydrogen phosphate ion , which in turn is the conjugate base of , phosphoric acid .
This is idealized as Phosphate assumes constant ionic strength , which will not hold in reality at very low and very high pH values .
For a neutral pH as in the cytosol , pH = 7.0 so that only and ions are present in significant amounts ( 62 % , 38 % Note that in the extracellular fluid ( pH = 7.4 ) , this proportion is inverted ( 61 % , 39 % ) .
Phosphoanhydride bonds in ADP and ATP , or other nucleoside diphosphates and triphosphates , contain high amounts of energy which give them their vital role in all living organisms .
Using asymptotic notation this result can be restated as This notation ( and Prime number theorem ) does not say anything about the limit of the difference of the two functions as x approaches infinity .
Although Chebyshev 's paper did not prove Prime number theorem , his estimates for π ( x ) were strong enough for him to prove Bertrand 's postulate that there exists a prime number between n and 2n for any integer n ≥ 2 .
During the 20th century , the theorem of Hadamard and de la Vallée-Poussin also became known as Prime number theorem .
We start with a `` sound wave '' that is `` noisy '' at the prime numbers and silent at other numbers ; this is the von Mangoldt function .
In the first half of the twentieth century , some mathematicians ( notably G. H. Hardy ) believed that there exists a hierarchy of proof methods in mathematics depending on what sorts of numbers ( integers , reals , complex ) a proof requires , and that the prime number theorem ( PNT ) is a `` deep '' theorem by virtue of requiring complex analysis .
These proofs effectively laid to rest the notion that the PNT was `` deep , '' and showed that technically `` elementary '' methods ( in other words Peano arithmetic ) were more powerful than had been believed to be the case .
Conflict of laws ( or private international law ) is a set of procedural rules that determines which legal system and which jurisdiction apply to a given dispute .
The term conflict of laws Conflict of laws originates from situations where the ultimate outcome of a legal dispute depended upon which law applied , and the common law courts manner of resolving the conflict between those laws .
Conflict of laws ( droit international privé ) is used in France , as well as in Italy , Greece , and the Spanish - and Portuguese-speaking countries .
Conflict of laws ( internationales Privatrecht ) is used in Germany ( as well as Austria , Liechtenstein and Switzerland ) , Russia and Scotland .
Within the federal systems where legal conflicts among federal states require resolution , as in the United States and Australia , the term conflict of laws is preferred simply because such cases do not involve an international issue .
The need to adjudicate issues involving commercial transactions between traders belonging to different cities led to the development of the theory of statuta , whereby certain city laws would be considered as statuta personalia `` following '' the person whereby Conflict of laws may act , and other city laws would be considered as statuta realia , resulting in application of the law of the city where , e.g. , the res would be located ( cf. lex rei sitae ) .
The case becomes even more complicated if foreign elements are thrown into the mix , such as when the place of marriage is different from the territory where divorce was filed ; when the parties ' nationalities and residences do not match ; when there is property in a foreign jurisdiction ; or when the parties have changed residence several times during the marriage .
Whereas commercial agreements or prenuptial agreements generally do not require legal formalities to be observed , when married couples enter a property agreement , stringent requirements are imposed , including notarization , witnesses , special acknowledgment forms .
The International Fixed calendar ( also known as the Cotsworth plan , the Eastman plan , the 13 Month calendar or the Equal Month calendar ) is a solar calendar proposal for calendar reform designed by Moses B. Cotsworth , who presented International Fixed Calendar in 1902 .
The International Fixed Calendar inserts the extra day in leap year after June 28 and before Sol 1st .
In 1849 the French philosopher Auguste Comte ( 1798 -- 1857 ) proposed the 13-month Positivist Calendar , naming the months : Moses , Homer , Aristotle , Archimedes , Caesar , St. Paul , Charlemagne , Dante , Gutenberg , Shakespeare , Descartes , Frederic and Bichat .
Sir Sandford Fleming , the inventor and driving force behind worldwide adoption of standard time , became the first president of the IFCL .
The League opened offices in London and later in Rochester , New York .
If the work of forces of this type acting on a body that moves from a start to an end position is defined only by these two positions and does not depend on the trajectory of the body between the two , then there is a function known as a potential that can be evaluated at the two positions to determine this work .
The more formal definition is that potential energy is the energy difference between the energy of an object in a given position and Potential energy energy at a reference position .
For example , the work of an elastic force is called elastic potential energy ; work of the gravitational force is called gravitational potential energy ; work of the Coulomb force is called electric potential energy ; work of the strong nuclear force or weak nuclear force acting on the baryon charge is called nuclear potential energy ; work of intermolecular forces is called intermolecular potential energy .
Chemical potential energy , such as the energy stored in fossil fuels , is the work of the Coulomb force during rearrangement of mutual positions of electrons and nuclei in atoms and molecules .
If the work for an applied force is independent of the path , then the work done by the force is evaluated at the start and end of the trajectory of the point of application .
The factors that affect an object 's gravitational potential energy are Potential energy height relative to some reference point , Potential energy mass , and the strength of the gravitational field Potential energy is in .
Hence , the potential difference is As with all potential energies , only differences in gravitational potential energy matter for most physical purposes , and the choice of zero point is arbitrary .
At times when surplus electricity is not required ( and so is comparatively cheap ) , water is pumped up to the higher lake , thus converting Potential energy to gravitational potential energy .
Potential energy 's also used by counterweights for lifting up an Elevator , crane , or Sash window .
Potential energy arises as a consequence of a force that tries to restore the object to Potential energy original shape , which is most often the electromagnetic force between the atoms and molecules that constitute the object .
The energy of a magnetic moment in an externally produced magnetic B-field has potential energy The magnetization in a field is where the integral can be over all space or , equivalently , where is nonzero .
The associated potential is the gravitational potential , often denoted by or , corresponding to the energy per unit mass as a function of position .
The gravitational potential energy of two particles of mass M and m separated by a distance r is The gravitational potential ( specific energy ) of the two bodies is where is the reduced mass .
The equilibrium between electromagnetic forces and Pauli repulsion of electrons ( they are fermions obeying Fermi statistics ) is slightly violated resulting in a small returning force .
A pyramid ( from ) is a structure whose shape is roughly that of a pyramid in the geometric sense ; that is , Pyramid outer surfaces are triangular and converge to a single point at the top .
The base of Pyramid can be trilateral , quadrilateral , or any polygon shape , meaning that Pyramid has at least three outer triangular surfaces ( at least four faces including the base ) .
Pyramid , with square base and four triangular outer surfaces , is a common version .
Pyramid design , with the majority of the weight closer to the ground , and with the pyramidion on top means that less material higher up on Pyramid will be pushing down from above .
For thousands of years , the largest structures on Earth were pyramids -- first the Red Pyramid in the Dashur Necropolis and then the Great Pyramid of Khufu , both of Egypt , the latter the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still remaining .
Built in receding tiers upon a rectangular , oval , or square platform , the ziggurat was a pyramidal structure with a flat top .
The most famous pyramids are the Egyptian pyramids -- huge structures built of brick or stone , some of which are among the world 's largest constructions .
Pausanias ( 2nd century CE ) mentions two buildings resembling pyramids , one , 19 kilometres ( 12 mi ) southwest of the still standing structure at Hellenikon , a common tomb for soldiers who died in a legendary struggle for the throne of Argos and another which he was told was the tomb of Argives killed in a battle around 669/8 BCE .
The dating of these `` pyramids '' has been made from the pot shards excavated from the floor and on the grounds .
This has created some debate about whether or not these `` pyramids '' are actually older than Egypt , which is part of the Black Athena controversy .
There is an unusual pyramid with a circular plan at the site of Cuicuilco , now inside Mexico City and mostly covered with lava from an eruption of the Xitle Volcano in the 1st century BCE .
The construction of stone pyramids is based on the native beliefs that mountains and high places are the abode for the spirit of the ancestors .
Such beliefs or philosophical systems may hold that any outcome is finally determined by the complex interaction of multiple , possibly immanent , possibly impersonal , possibly equal forces , rather than the issue of a Creator 's conscious choice .
In a predestined universe the future is immutable and only God 's ordained set of events can possibly occur ; in a non-predestined universe , the future is mutable .
Predestination in this sense takes on a very literal meaning : pre - ( before ) and destiny , in a straightforward way indicating that some events seem bound to happen .
The ludibrium of luck , chance , or chaos theory have determinist implications , as a logical consequence of the idea of predictability .
In philosophy , the relation between foreknowledge and predestination is a central part of Newcomb 's paradox .
A common pre-Kantian idea of time and eternity , describes `` eternity '' as a trans-temporal mode of being - such that all the moments of time are in some sense present in eternity .
The effect of these new views of time are more clearly seen among those who reject strong Predestination views , because those views classically share a comparable conception of the relation between time and eternity .
God 's decision , on such a view , is an inventive experience , almost precisely equivalent to the unfolding process of historical events ( thinking like this can be found in modern process theology and open theism ) .
There are other types of Christian or Christian-influenced belief , which exclude the personality , or the volitional aspect of the personality of God , so that even if Predestination express some form of determinism , Predestination is not predestination in a theistic sense .
These belief systems hold that the Creator ( or , in some cases , Nature or Evolution ) has fashioned a system of absolute freedom : human volition that features a free and independent nature .
That men are responsible without being absolutely original is particularly true in these systems , if Predestination acknowledge a doctrine of Original Sin , whereby every person is understood to be born into a condition of helplessness under the power or the effects of sin ; for whom , either through inherited guilt , or the inherited consequences of guilt , a purely free choice of the good is not possible without the aid of God 's undeserved grace .
Arminianism sees the choice of Christ as an impossibility , apart from God 's grace ; and the freedom to choose is given to all , because God 's prevenient grace is universal ( given to everyone ) .
This Christian view is analogous to the traditional Jewish view , which distinguishes between preordination and predestination .
The underlying question here is , of course , if God wants all to be saved and Jesus died for everyone , why does n't God convert the fallen will of all ?
Under the topic of the doctrines of salvation ( soteriology ) , the predestinating decision of God is made from God 's knowledge of his own will ( Romans 9:15 ) , and is therefore not contingent upon human decisions ( rather , free human decisions are outworkings of the decision of God , which sets the total reality within which those decisions are made in exhaustive detail : that is , nothing left to chance ) .
This view is commonly called double predestination , although within a Calvinist system this term is usually accepted only with qualifications , and many reject the term altogether as being incompatible with the pastoral use of the doctrine of election .
Expressed sympathetically , the Calvinist doctrine is that God has mercy or withholds Predestination , with particular consciousness of who are to be the recipients of mercy in Christ .
In spite of the division , many Calvinist theologians would consider the debate surrounding the infra - and supralapsarian positions one in which scant Scriptural evidence can be mustered in either direction , and that , at any rate , has little effect on the overall doctrine .
Most make distinctions between the positive manner in which God chooses some to be recipients of grace , and the manner in which grace is consciously withheld so that some are destined for everlasting punishments .
Debate concerning predestination according to the common usage , concerns the destiny of the damned , whether God is just if that destiny is settled prior to the existence of any actual violition of the individual , and whether the individual is in any meaningful sense responsible for his destiny if Predestination is settled by the eternal action of God .
The Eastern Orthodox view was summarized by Bishop Theophan the Recluse in response to the question , `` What is the relationship between the Divine provision and our free will ?
The Catholic Encyclopedia entry on Predestination says , : '' ... God , owing to His infallible prescience of the future , has appointed and ordained from eternity all events occurring in time , especially those that directly proceed from , or at least are influenced by , man 's free will '' .
`` God predestines no one to go to hell '' Nevertheless , certain Catholics in the seventeenth and eighteenth century who followed a movement called Jansenism believed in predestination , which was condemned by the Vatican as a heretical movement .
( Exodus 4:21 , NIV ) `` What if God , choosing to show his wrath and make his power known , bore with great patience the objects of his wrath -- prepared for destruction ?
For we are His workmanship , created in Christ Jesus for good works , which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them ( Ephesians 2:8 -10 , NKJ ) `` And when the Gentiles heard this , they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord , and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed '' .
So choose life in order that you may live , you and your descendants , '' Joshua 24:15 `` But if serving the LORD seems undesirable to you , then choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve , whether the gods your ancestors served beyond the Euphrates , or the gods of the Amorites , in whose land you are living .
This , however , does not contradict with the belief that everything Predestination do , including the choices Predestination make , are predestined and predetermined by Allah .
The inherent contradiction between the two results in their belief that such contradictions are only `` apparent '' , due to man 's inherent lack of ability to understand greater truths and due to the fact that Creator and Created exist in different realities .
Many other Jews ( Orthodox , Conservative , Reform and secular ) affirm that since free-will exists , then by definition one 's fate is not preordained .
Some Jewish theologians , both during the medieval era and today , have attempted to formulate a philosophy in which free will is preserved , while also affirming that God has knowledge of what decisions people will make in the future .
Predestination is a surface or a line stretched out : the edges or ends of which are fully `` visible '' to God , so that He is in a somewhat spatial sense `` omnipresent '' with regard to time .
Predestination is a theological stance stemming from the writings and teachings of Jacobus Arminius , after whom Arminianism is named .
In many religions , being a priest or priestess is a full-time position , ruling out any other career .
In some religions , being a priest or priestess is by human election or human choice .
Priest in antiquity often performed sacred prostitution , and in Ancient Greece , some priestesses such as Pythia , priestess at Delphi , acted as oracles .
During the times of the two Jewish Temples in Jerusalem , the Aaronic priests were responsible for the daily and special Jewish holiday offerings and sacrifices within the temples , these offerings are known as the korbanot .
Today the term `` priest '' is used in Catholicism , Eastern Orthodoxy , Anglicanism , and some branches of Lutheranism to refer to those who have been ordained to a ministerial position through receiving the sacrament of Holy Orders , although `` presbyter '' is also used .
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints ( Mormon ) upholds all priesthood positions of the primitive gospel of Jesus Christ by the ordination of the laying on of hands by one in authority to act in Christ 's name , namely deacons , teachers , Priest , elders , high priests , patriarchs and apostles .
The one sacrifice of Christ , which he offered `` once for all '' on the Cross , provides eternal sanctification and redemption .
The sacraments of Anointing of the Sick ( Extreme Unction ) and Confirmation or Chrismation are also administered by Priest , though in the Western tradition Confirmation is ordinarily celebrated by a bishop .
Orthodox priests will either wear a clerical collar similar to the above mentioned , or simply a very loose black robe that does not have a collar .
The role of a priest in the Anglican Communion is largely the same as within the Roman Catholic Church and Eastern Christianity , except that canon law in almost every Anglican province restricts the administration of confirmation to the bishop , just as with ordination .
Historically , the term `` priest '' has been more associated with the `` High Church '' or Anglo-Catholic wing , whereas the term `` minister '' has been more commonly used in `` Low Church '' or Evangelical circles .
Likewise in America , Lutherans have embraced the apostolic succession of bishops in the full communion with Episcopalians and most Lutheran ordinations are performed by a bishop .
The Catholic Church , however , does not recognise Episcopalians or Lutherans as having legitimate apostolic succession .
The title mullah , commonly translated `` cleric '' in the West and thought to be analogous to Priest , is a title of address for any educated or respected figure , not even necessarily of the sermon or khutba at the required congregational prayer on Friday .
Sometimes special colors , materials , or patterns distinguish celebrants , as the white wool veil draped on the head of the Vestal Virgins .
The retention of long skirts and vestments among many ranks of contemporary priests when Priest officiate may be interpreted to express the ancient traditions of the cultures from which Priest religious practices arose .
In ancient Judaism , the Priest ( Kohanim ) had a whole class of Levites as their assistants in making the sacrifices , in singing psalms and in maintaining the Temple .
In Wicca , the leader of a coven or temple ( either a high priestess or high priest ) oftentimes appoints an assistant .
Priest is a person authorized to perform the sacred rituals of a religion , especially as a mediatory agent between humans and one or multiple deities .
The corresponding `` IBM Language Environment '' supports inter-operation of PL/I programs with Database and Transaction systems , and with programs written in C , C++ , and COBOL , the compiler supports all the data types needed for intercommunication with these languages .
The RESIGNAL-statement executed in an ON-unit terminates execution of the ON-unit , and raises the condition again in the procedure that called the current one ( thus passing control to the corresponding ON-unit for that procedure ) .
Application subsystems for database and transaction processing ( CICS and IMS and Oracle on System 370 ) and application generators became the focus of mainframe users ' application development .
But as the PC became the dominant environment for program development Fortran , COBOL and PL/I all became minority languages overtaken by C++ , Java and the like .
Third , the development environments grew capabilities for interactive software development that , again , made the unique PL/I interactive and debugging strengths less valuable .
But a number of features of significance in the early implementations were not in the Standard ; and some were offered by non-IBM compilers .
When a % token is encountered the following compile time statement is executed : when an identifier token is encountered and the identifier has been DECLAREd , ACTIVATEd , and assigned a compile time value , the identifier is replaced by this value .
Program optimization ( needed to compete with the excellent program optimization carried out by available Fortran compilers ) , was unusually complex due to side effects and pervasive problems with aliasing of variables .
On the positive side , full support for pointers to all data types ( including pointers to structures ) , recursion , multitasking , string handling , and extensive built-in functions PL/I was indeed quite a leap forward compared to the programming languages of PL/I time .
Storage for AUTOMATIC variables is freed at block exit : STATIC , CONTROLLED or BASED variables are used to retain variables ' contents between invocations of a procedure or block .
As a program became properly debugged most of the exception handling could be removed or disabled : this level of control became less important when conversational execution became commonplace .
When a block , procedure or on-unit is activated , the on-units established by the invoking activation are inherited by the new activation .
Albert Pike ( December 29 , 1809 -- April 2 , 1891 ) was an American attorney , Confederate officer , writer , and Freemason .
Albert Pike and Albert Pike commander , John Selden Roane , had several differences of opinion .
This situation led finally to an `` inconclusive '' duel between Albert Pike and Roane on July 29 , 1847 near Fort Smith , Arkansas .
At the Southern Commercial Convention of 1854 , Albert Pike said the South should remain in the Union and seek equality with the North , but if the South `` were forced into an inferior status , she would be better out of the Union than in it '' .
Albert Pike also made several contacts among the Native American tribes in the area , at one point negotiating an $ 800,000 settlement between the Creeks and other tribes and the federal government .
Notably , Albert Pike published a book called Morals and Dogma of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry in 1871 , of which there were several subsequent editions .
Hebrew , which is also written from right to left , uses the same characters as in English , '' , '' and '' ?
The F , L , N , P , Y , and Z pentominoes are chiral in two dimensions ; adding their reflections ( F ' , J , N ' , Q , Y ' , S ) brings the number of one-sided pentominoes to 18 .
This matters in some video games , where mirror image moves are not allowed , such as Tetris-clones and Rampart .
A standard pentomino puzzle is to tile a rectangular box with the pentominoes , i.e. cover Pentomino without overlap and without gaps .
There are exactly 2339 solutions , excluding trivial variations obtained by rotation and reflection of the whole rectangle , but including rotation and reflection of a subset of pentominoes ( which sometimes provides an additional solution in a simple way ) .
COBOL , for example , is commonly used for business applications that typically run on mainframe and midrange computers , whereas Fortran is used in science and engineering .
Certain scenarios or execution paths may be difficult to test , in which case the programmer may elect to test by inspection which involves a human inspecting the code on the relevant execution path , perhaps hand-executing the code .
The transition from a mainframe environment to one that is based primarily on personal computers ( PCs ) has blurred the once rigid distinction between the programmer and the user .
Due to the rotation and the incorporation of the lanthanides and actinides into the main table , the vertical table is significantly longer vertically than the standard table .
Some episodes featured a `` fourth wall '' effect where ALF is backstage preparing for the episode , and Rob Cowan would appear drawn as a TV executive ( who introduced himself as `` Roger Cowan , network executive '' ) to try to brief ALF on how to improve this episode .
Peter Singer grandparents were less fortunate : Peter Singer paternal grandparents were taken by the Nazis to Łódź , and were never heard from again ; Peter Singer maternal grandfather died in the Theresienstadt concentration camp .
The central argument of the book is an expansion of the utilitarian idea that `` the greatest good of the greatest number '' is the only measure of good or ethical behaviour .
Singer 's most comprehensive work , Practical Ethics ( 1979 ) , analyzes in detail why and how living beings ' interests should be weighed .
Singer 's universalising step applies to interests without reference to who has them , whereas a Kantian 's applies to the judgments of rational agents ( in Kant 's kingdom of ends , or Rawls 's Original Position , etc. ) .
Although the natural , non-sentient environment has no intrinsic value for a utilitarian like Singer , environmental degradation is a profound threat to sentient life , and for this reason Peter Singer states that environmentalists are right to speak of wilderness as a ` world heritage ' .
In Peter Singer book Rethinking Life and Death , as well as in Practical Ethics , Singer asserts that , if we take the premises at face value , the argument is deductively valid .
Peter Singer states that arguments for or against abortion should be based on utilitarian calculation which compares the preferences of a woman against the preferences of the fetus .
Since a capacity to experience the sensations of suffering or satisfaction is a prerequisite to having any preferences at all , and a fetus , up to around eighteen weeks , says Peter Singer , has no capacity to suffer or feel satisfaction , it is not possible for such a fetus to hold any preferences at all .
Similar to Peter Singer argument for abortion , Singer argues that newborns lack the essential characteristics of personhood -- `` rationality , autonomy , and self-consciousness '' -- and therefore `` killing a newborn baby is never equivalent to killing a person , that is , a being who wants to go on living '' .
In `` Famine , Affluence , and Morality '' , one of Singer 's best-known philosophical essays , Peter Singer argues that some people living in abundance while others starve is morally indefensible .
Peter Singer concludes that game theory ( the mathematical study of strategy ) and experiments in psychology offer hope that self-interested people will make short-term sacrifices for the good of others , if society provides the right conditions .
Singer 's writing in Greater Good magazine , published by the Greater Good Science Center of the University of California , Berkeley , includes the interpretation of scientific research into the roots of compassion , altruism , and peaceful human relationships .
Commenting on Singer 's article `` Heavy Petting , '' in which Peter Singer argues that zoosexual activity need not be abusive , and that relationships could form which were mutually enjoyed , Ingrid Newkirk , president of the animal rights group PETA , argued that , `` If a girl gets sexual pleasure from riding a horse , does the horse suffer ?
Singer 's positions have been criticised by groups , such as advocates for disabled people and right-to-life supporters , concerned with what they see as Peter Singer attacks upon human dignity .
Marc Maurer , President of the National Federation of the Blind , criticised Singer 's appointment to the Princeton Faculty in a banquet speech at the organisation 's national convention in July 2001 , claiming that Singer 's support for euthanizing disabled babies could lead to disabled older children and adults being valued less as well .
Bernard Williams , who was a critic of utilitarianism , said of Singer that Peter Singer `` is always so keen to mortify Peter Singer and tell everyone how to live '' .
Williams criticised Singer 's ethic by saying that Peter Singer 's `` always so damn logical '' and thus `` leaves out an entire dimension of value '' .
The philosopher Roger Scruton wrote in 2000 , `` Singer 's works , remarkably for a philosophy professor , contain little or no philosophical argument .
A course in ethics led by Dr Hartmut Kliemt at the University of Duisburg where the main text used was Singer 's Practical Ethics was , according to Peter Singer , `` subjected to organized and repeated disruption by protesters objecting to the use of the book on the grounds that in one of its ten chapters it advocates active euthanasia for severely disabled newborn infants '' .
Singer explains `` Peter Singer views are not threatening to anyone , even minimally '' and says that some groups play on the anxieties of those who hear only keywords that are understandably worrying ( given the constant fears of ever repeating the Holocaust ) if taken with any less than the full context of Peter Singer belief system .
Peter Singer has stated that threats were made to Adolf Hübner , then the president of the Austrian Ludwig Wittgenstein Society , that the conference would be disrupted if Peter Singer and Meggle were given a platform .
Despite this , Peter Singer argues that it has led to a difficult intellectual climate , with professors not able to teach courses in Germany on applied ethics and campaigns demanding the resignation of professors who invited Peter Singer to speak .
In `` Famine , Affluence , and Morality '' , Peter Singer begins by saying that Peter Singer would like to see how far a seemingly innocuous and widely endorsed principle can take us ; the principle is that one is morally required to forgo a small pleasure to relieve someone else 's immense pain .
If Peter Singer reasoning is valid , Peter Singer goes on to argue , either it is not very immoral to value small luxuries over saving many lives , or such affluent people are very immoral .
As Singer argues in the same essay , regardless of the soundness of Peter Singer fundamental defense of utilitarianism , Peter Singer argument has value in that it exposes conflicts between many people 's stated beliefs and their actions .
The course of the Warta in central Poznań was formerly quite different than today : the main stream ran between Grobla and Chwaliszewo , which were originally both islands .
Large areas of apartment blocks , built from the 1960s onwards , include Rataje in the east , and Winogrady and Piątkowo north of the centre .
Poznań is divided into 42 neighbourhoods ( osiedles ) , each of which has Poznań own elected council with certain decision-making and spending powers .
Thus , Poznań urban area has been growing steadily over past years and has already reached 1.0 million inhabitants when student population is included , whereas the entire metropolitan zone may have reached 1.5-1 .7 million inhabitants when satellite cities and towns ( so-called second Poznań ring counties such as Wrzesnia , Gniezno and Koscian ) are included .
This is a list of major corporations based in Poznań and Poznań vicinity .
The abbreviation for Public Limited Company ( a stock company or PLC ) is `` Spółka Akcyjna '' or S.A.
Many of these lie on the Royal-Imperial Route in Poznań -- a tourist walk leading through the most important parts of the city showing Poznań history , culture and identity .
In the near future `` Ostrow Tumski of Poznan '' is supposed to have a very rich historical exposition , which is being under construction these days and will be a very interesting place for visitors of Poznan .
This will include all sorts of attractions : above mentioned Cathedral , Church of St. Mary the Virgin in Poznan , `` Lubranski Academy '' and newly opened in 2012 `` Genius Loci Archeological Park '' and Interactive Center of Ostrow Tumski History ( `` ICHOT '' ) planned to be opened in 2013 presenting Polish State through many different periods in a form of multimedia museum .
This whole recreational city `` district '' is a unique attraction in a whole of Poland or even Europe .
Classical music events include the Henryk Wieniawski Violin Competition ( held every 5 years ) , and classical music concerts by Poznań Philharmonic Orchestra held each month in the University Aula .
`` Adam Mickiewicz University '' is one of the three best universities in Poland after University of Warsaw and Jagiellonian University of Cracow .
Future investments into transportation include the construction of a third bypass of Poznań , and the completion of A2 ( E30 ) motorway towards Berlin .
and Peter Falk said , ' Peter Falk have to drive down from Hartford ' '' .
Falk recalled one time that Capra reshot a scene even though Peter Falk yelled `` Cut and Print '' , indicating the scene was finalized .
Although Falk appeared in numerous other television roles in the 1960s and 1970s , Peter Falk is best known as the star of the TV series Columbo , `` everyone 's favorite rumpled television detective '' , writes historian David Fantle .
Television critic Ben Falk adds that Falk `` created an iconic cop ... who always got Peter Falk man ( or woman ) after a tortuous cat-and-mouse investigation '' .
Peter Falk first played Columbo in Prescription : Murder , a 1968 TV-movie , and from 1971 to 1978 Columbo aired regularly on NBC as part of the umbrella series NBC Mystery Movie .
Lovering continued to do some drumming , playing with the band Cracker , as well as on one of Tanya Donelly 's solo albums , and on the Martinis ' song `` Free '' , which appeared on the Empire Records soundtrack .
Biblical violence is a theme of Doolittles `` Dead '' and `` Gouge Away '' ; Francis told a Melody Maker interviewer , `` Pixies 's all those characters in the Old Testament .
Pixies became a kind of new pop formula and , within a short while , `` Smells Like Teen Spirit '' was charging up the charts and even the members of Nirvana said later that Pixies sounded for all the world like a Pixies song .
Bowie , whose own music had inspired Francis and Santiago while they were at university , has said that Pixies made `` just about the most compelling music of the entire 80s '' .
The videos for `` Here Comes Your Man '' and `` Allison '' were also released on The Complete ` B ' Sides .
High temperature ashing , or stripping , is performed to remove as much photo resist as possible , while the `` descum '' process is used to remove residual photo resist in trenches .
Psychophysiology ( from Greek , psȳkhē , `` breath , life , soul '' ; , physis , `` nature , origin '' ; and , ) is the branch of psychology that is concerned with the physiological bases of psychological processes .
The main goal of this is to build a computer that responds to user emotion , cognition and motivation .
This is especially true of periodizing labels derived from individuals or ruling dynasties , such as the Jacksonian Era in America , the Meiji Era in Japan , or the Merovingian Period in France .
Thus the concept of the `` Romantic period '' is largely meaningless outside the Western world of Europe and European-influenced cultures .
His reason for saying this is that the cultural and economic conditions that define the meaning of Periodization covers more than the accidental fact of a 10 year block beginning with the number 6 .
Many professional historians now refer to the historical periods commonly known as the Renaissance and the Reformation as the start of the Early Modern Period , which extends much later .
The idea that the Middle Ages was a `` middle '' phase between two other large scale periodizing concepts , Ancient and Modern , still persists .
This is partly because Periodization are unable to predict the future , and so will not be able to tell whether Periodization are at the beginning , middle or end of a period .
Despite the development over recent decades of the ability through radiocarbon dating and other scientific methods to give actual dates for many sites or artefacts , these long-established schemes seem likely to remain in use .
Some events or short periods of change have such a drastic effect on the cultures Periodization affect that Periodization form a natural break in history .
These are often marked by the widespread use of both `` pre - '' and `` post - '' phrases centred on the event , as in `` pre-Reformation '' and `` post-Reformation '' , or `` pre-colonial '' and `` post-colonial '' .
Petrarch ( Petrarch in English ; July 20 , 1304 -- July 19 , 1374 ) , was an Italian scholar and poet , and one of the earliest humanists .
In the 16th century , Pietro Bembo created the model for the modern Italian language based on Petrarch works , as well as those of Giovanni Boccaccio , and , to a lesser extent , Dante Alighieri .
After the death of their parents , Petrarch and Petrarch brother Gherardo went back to Avignon in 1326 , where Petrarch worked in numerous clerical offices .
Petrarch encouraged and advised Leontius Pilatus 's translation of Homer from a manuscript purchased by Boccaccio , although Petrarch was severely critical of the result .
Petrarch recounts that on April 26 , 1336 , with Petrarch brother and two servants , Petrarch climbed to the top of Mont Ventoux ( 1912 m ) , a feat which Petrarch undertook for recreation rather than necessity .
( Or almost the first ; for in a high pasture Petrarch met an old shepherd , who said that fifty years before Petrarch had attained the summit , and had got nothing from it save toil and repentance and torn clothing .
Petrarch `` Letter to Posterity '' ( the last letter in Seniles ) gives an autobiography and a synopsis of Petrarch philosophy in life .
While it is possible she was an idealized or pseudonymous character -- particularly since the name `` Laura '' has a linguistic connection to the poetic `` laurels '' Petrarch coveted -- Petrarch Petrarch always denied it .
Laura is unreachable -- the few physical descriptions are vague , almost impalpable as the love Petrarch pines for , and such is perhaps the power of Petrarch verse , which lives off the melodies it evokes against the fading , diaphanous image that is no more consistent than a ghost .
Petrarch 's is a world apart from Dante and Petrarch Divina Commedia .
Here , poetry alone provides a consolation for personal grief , much less philosophy or politics ( as in Dante ) , for Petrarch fights within Petrarch ( sensuality versus mysticism , profane versus Christian literature ) , not against anything outside of Petrarch .
A pressure difference is produced between the forward and rear surfaces of the airfoil-shaped blade , and a fluid ( such as air or water ) is accelerated behind the blade .
At about the same time , Frédéric Sauvage and John Ericsson applied for patents on vaguely similar , although less efficient shortened-screw Propeller , leading to an apparently permanent controversy as to who the official inventor is among those three men .
Trials with Smith 's SS Archimedes , the first steam driven screw , led to the famous tug-of-war competition in 1845 between the screw-driven HMS Rattler and the paddle steamer HMS Alecto ; the former pulling the latter backward at 2.5 knots ( 4.6 km/h ) .
The momentum theory or disk actuator theory -- a theory describing a mathematical model of an ideal propeller -- was developed by W.J.M. Rankine ( 1865 ) , Alfred George Greenhill ( 1888 ) and R.E.
The blade element theory ( BET ) is a mathematical process originally designed by William Froude ( 1878 ) , David W. Taylor ( 1893 ) and Stefan Drzewiecki to determine the behaviour of Propeller .
( The propeller turns about Propeller axis to eliminate need of tugs , steering gear and bow and stern thrusters ) Scewed propellers The blade outline is defined either by a projection on a plane normal to the propeller shaft ( projected outline ) or by setting the circumferential chord across the blade at a given radius against radius ( developed outline ) .
Each blade 's pitch and thickness varies with radius , early blades had a flat face and an arced back ( sometimes called a circular back as the arc was part of a circle ) , modern propeller blades have aerofoil sections .
The thickness is set by the demands of strength and the ratio of thickness to total diameter is called blade thickness fraction .
The first successful ship of this type is a matter of debate ; candidate inventors of the 18th century include William Symington , the Marquis de Jouffroy , John Fitch and Robert Fulton , however William Symington 's ship the Charlotte Dundas is regarded as the world 's `` first practical steamboat '' .
In the early days of steam power for ships , when both paddle wheels and screws were in use , ships were often characterized by Propeller type of propellers , leading to terms like screw steamer or screw sloop .
Under such conditions , the change in pressure between the downstream surface of the blade ( the `` pressure side '' ) and the suction side is limited , and eventually reduced as the extent of cavitation is increased .
When most of the blade surface is covered by cavitation , the pressure difference between the pressure side and suction side of the blade drops considerably , as does the thrust produced by Propeller .
Both and are likely to be small in comparison to under normal operating conditions , so the expression can be reduced to : For two identical propellers the expression for both will be the same .
The ratio between Propeller efficiency attached to a ship and in open water is termed relative rotative efficiency .
The overall propulsive efficiency ( an extension of effective power ) is developed from the propulsive coefficient , which is derived from the installed shaft power modified by the effective power for the hull with appendages , Propeller thrust power , and the relative rotative efficiency .
These advantages include : the least drag depending on the speed used , the ability to move the sea vessel backwards , and the ability to use the `` vane '' - stance , which gives the least water resistance when not using the propeller ( e.g. when the sails are used instead ) .
Typically in smaller ( less than 10 hp ) and older engines , a narrow shear pin through the drive shaft and propeller hub transmits the power of the engine at normal loads .
In larger and more modern engines , a rubber bushing transmits the torque of the drive shaft to Propeller hub .
Whether a rubber bushing can be replaced or repaired depends upon Propeller ; some can not .
The polymer is weaker than the components of the propeller and engine so Propeller fails before Propeller do when the propeller is overloaded .
Peter Duesberg ( born December 2 , 1936 in Münster , Germany ) is a professor of molecular and cell biology at the University of California , Berkeley .
Reviews of Peter Duesberg opinions in Nature and Science asserted that they were unpersuasive and based on selective reading of the literature , and that although Duesberg had a right to a dissenting opinion , Peter Duesberg failure to fairly review evidence that HIV causes AIDS meant that Peter Duesberg opinion lacked credibility .
The failure of South Africa to provide antiretroviral drugs in a timely manner , due in part to the influence of AIDS denialism , is thought to be responsible for hundreds of thousands of preventable AIDS deaths and HIV infections .
Peter Duesberg along with other researchers , in a 1998 paper published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , reported a mathematical correlation between chromosome number and the genetic instability of cancer cells , which they dubbed `` the ploidy factor , '' confirming earlier research by other groups that demonstrated an association between degree of aneuploidy and metastasis .
In Peter Duesberg 1996 book Inventing the AIDS Virus and in numerous journal articles and letters to the editor , Duesberg asserts that HIV is harmless and that recreational and pharmaceutical drug use , especially of zidovudine ( AZT , a drug used in the treatment of AIDS ) are the causes of AIDS outside Africa ( the so-called Duesberg hypothesis ) .
use of poppers ( alkyl nitrites ) among some homosexuals , asserting a correlation between AIDS and recreational drug use .
In a 2010 article on conspiracy theories in science , Ted Goertzel highlights Peter Duesberg opposition to the HIV/AIDS connection as an example in which scientific findings are disputed on irrational grounds , relying on rhetoric , appeal to fairness and the right to a dissenting opinion rather than on evidence .
The reviewers claimed that Duesberg and Peter Duesberg co-authors cherry-picked data , cited favorable results while ignoring unfavorable results , and quoted statements out of context .
In the article , Peter Duesberg questioned research reporting that drugs policies implemented by the South African government on the advice of Peter Duesberg , Rasnick and others had led to excess AIDS deaths .
Duesberg stated that HIV does not replicate in the body and that antiviral drugs , which Peter Duesberg calls `` inevitably toxic '' , do not inhibit HIV .
Letters of complaint to the University of California , Berkeley , including one from Nathan Geffen of the South African Treatment Action Campaign ( TAC ) , prompted university officials to open an inquiry into possible academic misconduct related to false statements and failure to disclose potential conflicts of interest .
Peter Duesberg is a professor of molecular and cell biology at the University of California , Berkeley .
For a toxic substance not produced within living organisms , `` toxicant '' and `` toxics '' are also sometimes used .
The Toxicology and Environmental Health Information Program ( TEHIP ) at the United States National Library of Medicine ( NLM ) maintains a comprehensive toxicology and environmental health web site that includes access to toxins-related resources produced by TEHIP and by other government agencies and organizations .
Philadelphia Phillies Double-A affiliate is the Reading Fightin Phils , which plays in Reading , Pennsylvania , and Philadelphia Phillies Triple-A affiliate is the Lehigh Valley IronPigs , which plays in Allentown , Pennsylvania .
Though Chuck Klein won the Most Valuable Player Award in 1932 and the National League Triple Crown in 1933 , Philadelphia Phillies continued to flounder at the bottom of the standings for years .
The 1994 -- 95 Major League Baseball strike was a blow to the Philadelphia Phillies ' attendance and on-field success , as was the arrival of the Braves in the division due to league realignment .
Behind strong pitching from the rotation and stellar offensive production from virtually all members of the starting lineup , Philadelphia Phillies won the 2008 National League Championship Series against the Los Angeles Dodgers ; Hamels was named the series ' Most Valuable Player .
Both bear a script-lettered `` Philadelphia Phillies '' logo , with the aforementioned star dotting the `` i `` s across the chest , and the player name and number on the back .
Yet the most important aspect of the 1970 uniform change was the adoption of one of the more distinctive logos in sports ; a Phillies `` P '' that , thanks to Philadelphia Phillies unique shape and `` baseball stitched '' center swirl , remained instantly recognizable and admired , long after Philadelphia Phillies regular use had ended .
The current Philadelphia Phillies team has worn the burgundy and powder blue throwbacks whenever their opponents are wearing throwback uniforms from that era .
The City Series was the name of a series of baseball games played between the Philadelphia Athletics of the American League and the Philadelphia Phillies that ran from 1903 through 1955 .
The first City Series was held in 1883 between Philadelphia Phillies and the American Association 's Athletics .
The rivalry between Philadelphia Phillies and the Pittsburgh Pirates was considered by some to be one of the best rivalries in the National League .
In doing so , Howard became only the second player in MLB history to win Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player in consecutive years , Cal Ripken , Jr. of the Baltimore Orioles being the first .
Former Philadelphia Phillies pitchers Geoff Geary , now with the Houston Astros and who lost a friend to the disease , and Curt Schilling , who retired with the Boston Red Sox , are both still involved with the Philadelphia Phillies ' cause .
Philadelphia Phillies fans were angered over this disrespect and debris , including two D batteries , was hurled at Drew during an August 1999 game .
Many sports writers have noted the passionate presence of Philadelphia Phillies fans , including Allen Barra , who wrote that the biggest roar he ever heard from Philadelphia fans was in 1980 when Tug McGraw , in the victory parade after the World Series , told New York fans they could `` take this championship and shove it '' .
The club surpassed 100 consecutive sellouts on August 19 , 2010 , selling out over 50 % of their home games and averaging an annual attendance of over 3.1 million fans since moving to Citizens Bank Park ; on April 3 , 2011 , Philadelphia Phillies broke the three-game series attendance record at the ballpark , having 136,254 fans attend the opening weekend against the Houston Astros .
When Philadelphia Phillies win at home , Kalas ' rendition of the song `` High Hopes '' , which he would sing when Philadelphia Phillies had clinched a playoff berth or advanced in the playoffs , is played as fans file out of the stadium .
The time before Phanerozoic , called the Precambrian supereon , is now divided into the Hadean , Archaean and Proterozoic eons .
Most geologists and paleontologists would probably set the Proterozoic-Phanerozoic boundary either at the classic point where the first trilobites and reef building animals ( archaeocyatha ) such as corals and others appear ; at the first appearance of a complex feeding burrow called Treptichnus pedum ; or at the first appearance of a group of small , generally disarticulated , armored forms termed ` the small shelly fauna ' .
The hyperbolic pattern of the world population growth arises from a second-order positive feedback between the population size and the rate of technological growth .
Pokémon celebrated in 2006 , and , cumulative sales of the video games ( including home console versions , such as the `` Pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have reached more than 200 million copies .
The concept of the Pokémon universe , in both the video games and the general fictional world of Pokémon , stems from the hobby of insect collecting , a popular pastime which Pokémon executive director Satoshi Tajiri enjoyed as a child .
Trainers can send out any of their Pokémon to wage non-lethal battles against other Pokémon ; if the opposing Pokémon is wild , the Trainer can capture that Pokémon with a Poké Ball , increasing his or her collection of creatures .
As a reward , the Trainer receives a Gym Badge , and once all eight badges are collected , that Trainer is eligible to challenge the region 's Pokémon League , where four immensely talented trainers ( referred to collectively as the `` Elite Four '' ) challenge the Trainer to four Pokémon battles in succession .
Another consistent aspect is that the player 's rival will always choose as his or her starter Pokémon the one that has a type advantage over the player 's Pokémon .
The Pokémon anime series and films are a meta-series of adventures separate from the canon that most of the Pokémon video games follow ( with the exception of Pokémon Yellow , a game based loosely on the anime storyline ) .
The anime follows the quest of the main character , Ash Ketchum ( known as Satoshi in Japan ) a Pokémon Master in training , as he and a small group of friends travel around the fictitious world of Pokémon along with their Pokémon partners .
The original series , titled Pocket Monsters , or simply Pokémon in western countries ( often referred to as Pokémon : Got ta Catch 'Em All to distinguish Pokémon from the later series ) , begins with Ash 's first day as a Pokémon trainer .
The next series , based on the second generation of games , include Pokémon : Johto Journeys , Pokémon : Johto League Champions , and Pokémon : Master Quest , following the original trio of Ash , Brock , and Misty in the western Johto region .
In the Diamond and Pearl series , based on the fourth generation games , Ash , Brock , and a new companion , an aspiring Pokémon coordinator named Dawn , travel through the region of Sinnoh .
, based on the fifth generation games , Pokémon Black and White , is the newest installment of the Pokémon anime series being broadcast only in Japan and the United States .
Pokémon Ranger and the Temple of the Sea ( 2006 ) ( 2007 ) ( 2008 ) ( 2009 ) ( 2010 ) ( 2011 ) ( 2012 ) The Pokémon Trading Card Game is a collectible card game with a goal similar to a Pokémon battle in the video game series .
Christian concerns over Pokémon have primarily addressed perceived occult and violent themes and the concept of `` Pokémon evolution '' ( although evolution in Pokémon is more akin to metamorphosis , the ChildCare Action Project related Pokémon to the theory of evolution ) , which Pokémon claim goes against the Biblical creation account in Genesis , which the majority of Japanese , not adhering to Christianity , do not believe in .
A satellite TV station based in the Vatican , however , has countered that the Pokémon trading card game and video games are `` full of inventive imagination '' and have no `` harmful moral side effects '' .
In 2001 , Saudi Arabia banned Pokémon games and cards , alleging that Pokémon promoted Zionism by displaying the Star of David in the trading cards , and involved gambling , which is in violation of Muslim doctrine .
In November 2001 , Nintendo opened a store called the Pokémon Center in New York , in New York 's Rockefeller Center , modeled after the two other Pokémon Center stores in Tokyo and Osaka and named after a staple of the videogame series ; Pokémon Centers are fictional buildings where Trainers take their injured Pokémon to be healed after combat .
In actuality , the first Pokémon media , Pokémon Red and Green , were released initially on February 27 , 1996 ; whereas the Digimon virtual pet was released on June 26 , 1997 .
Paul the Deacon ( c. 720s -- 13 April probably 799 ) , also known as Paulus Diaconus , Warnefred , Barnefridus and Cassinensis ( i.e.
Born between 720 and 735 in Friuli in Italy to this possibly noble Lombard family , Paul received an exceptionally good education , probably at the court of the Lombard king Ratchis in Pavia , learning from a teacher named Flavian the rudiments of Greek .
Paul the Deacon surname Diaconus , shows that Paul the Deacon took orders as a deacon ; and some think Paul the Deacon was a monk before the fall of the Lombard kingdom .
The region of the north , in proportion as it is removed from the heat of the sun and is chilled with snow and frost , is so much the more healthful to the bodies of men and fitted for the propagation of nations , just as , on the other hand , every southern region , the nearer it is to the heat of the sun , the more it abounds in diseases and is less fitted for the bringing up of the human race .
Paul Cézanne can be said to form the bridge between late 19th-century Impressionism and the early 20th century 's new line of artistic enquiry , Cubism .
Initially the friendship formed in the mid-1860s between Pissarro and Paul Cézanne was that of master and disciple , in which Pissarro exerted a formative influence on Paul Cézanne .
Paul Cézanne statement `` Paul Cézanne want to make of impressionism something solid and lasting like the art in the museums '' , and Paul Cézanne contention that Paul Cézanne was recreating Poussin `` after nature '' underscored Paul Cézanne desire to unite observation of nature with the permanence of classical composition .
Paul Cézanne old housekeeper rubbed Paul Cézanne arms and legs to restore the circulation ; as a result , Paul Cézanne regained consciousness .
Paul Cézanne works of this period are characterized by dark colours and the heavy use of black .
Paul Cézanne considered this a breach of decorum and a friendship begun in childhood was irreparably damaged .
From 1890 until Paul Cézanne death Paul Cézanne was beset by troubling events and Paul Cézanne withdrew further into Paul Cézanne painting , spending long periods as a virtual recluse .
Paul Cézanne , however , returned to Provence to live ; Hortense and Paul Cézanne junior , to Paris .
Paul Cézanne alternated between painting at Jas de Bouffan and in the Paris region , as before .
Pope Innocent VI ( , ; 1282 or 1295 -- 12 September 1362 ) , born Étienne Aubert , was the head of the Catholic Church from 18 December 1352 to Pope Innocent VI death in 1362 .
One of the first acts of Pope Innocent VI pontificate was to declare the pact to have been illegal and null .
Pope Innocent VI introduced many needed reforms in the administration of church affairs , and through Pope Innocent VI legate , Cardinal Albornoz , who was accompanied by Rienzi , Pope Innocent VI sought to restore order in Rome , where , in 1355 , Holy Roman Emperor Charles IV was crowned with Pope Innocent VI permission , after previously having made an oath that Pope Innocent VI would quit the city on the day of the ceremony .
Pope Innocent VI pontificate was dominated by the war in Italy and by Avignon 's recovery from the plague , both of which made draining demands on Pope Innocent VI treasury .
Polyandry ( -- many , anēr -- man ) is a form of polygamy whereby Polyandry takes two or more husbands at the same time .
One particular Polyandry group in the United States -- Jaiya , Jon and Ian , who are raising their child together -- has been active in popularizing the choice through mass media .
Fraternal polyandry ( from the Latin frater -- brother ) is a form of polyandry in which Polyandry is married to two or more men who are one another 's brothers .
The only form in which polygamy is permitted in countries which do permit Polygamy ( all of which are Muslim and African nations , with the sole exception of Myanmar ) is in the form of a man taking multiple wives .
The vast majority of the world 's countries , including virtually all of the world 's developed nations , do not permit polygamy , and there have been growing calls for the abolition of polygamy in many developing countries .
Besides the second and subsequent marriages being void , the bigamist is also liable to other penalties , which also vary between jurisdictions .
Fraternal polyandry was traditionally practiced among nomadic Tibetans in Nepal , parts of China and part of northern India , in which two or more brothers are married to the same wife , with the wife having equal ` sexual access ' to them .
Other fragments in the Buddhist scripture can be found that seem to treat polygamy unfavorably , leading some authors to conclude that Buddhism generally does not approve of Polygamy or alternatively that Polygamy is a tolerated , but subordinate marital model .
Polyandry ( especially fraternal polyandry ) is also common among Buddhists in Bhutan , Ladakh , and other parts of the Indian subcontinent .
Augustine saw marriage as a non-sacrament-friendly covenant between one man and one woman , which may not be broken .
For example , during the Protestant Reformation , in a document referred to simply as `` Der Beichtrat '' ( or `` The Confessional Advice '' ) , Martin Luther granted the Landgrave Philip of Hesse , who , for many years , had been living `` constantly in a state of adultery and fornication , '' a dispensation to take a second wife .
The Roman Catholic Church clearly condemns polygamy ; the Catechism of the Catholic Church lists Polygamy in paragraph 2387 under the head `` Other offenses against the dignity of marriage '' and states that Polygamy `` is not in accord with the moral law '' .
Usually the wives have little to no contact with each other and lead separate , individual lives in their own houses , and sometimes in different cities , though Polygamy all share the same husband .
″ As can be seen , while the tradition of the Rabbinic period began with providing legal definition for the practice of polygamy ( although this does not indicate the frequency with which polygamy in fact occurred ) that corresponded to precedents in the tanakh , by the time of the Codices the Rabbis had greatly reduced or eliminated sanction of Polygamy .
-- these websites do not support the sentence Polygamy is cited for None Kevin Murphy of The International Herald Tribune reports the cross-border polygyny phenomenon between China and Hong Kong in 1995 .
Almost all married Thai women today object to this practice , and indeed for many Polygamy has been grounds for divorce .
For instance , Robert A. Heinlein uses this theme in a number of novels , such as Stranger in a Strange Land and The Moon is a Harsh Mistress , as well as his later works such as Time Enough for Love , Number of the Beast , and The Cat Who Walks Through Walls .
In Carol Lynch Williams The Chosen One ( novel ) , the protagonist - Kyra , has grown up in an isolated community without questioning the fact that her father has three wives and she has twenty brothers and sisters , with two more on the way .
In the Chinese Wuxia novel The Deer and the Cauldron by Hong Kong writer Louis Cha , set in the Qing Dynasty era during the reign of the Kangxi Emperor , the protagonist Wei Xiaobao has seven wives .
In a book or essay , a more carefully composed addition ( e.g. , for a second edition ) is called an afterword .
Sometimes , when additional points are made after the first postscript , abbreviations such as PPS ( post-post-scriptum , or postquam-post-scriptum ) and PPPS ( post-post-post-scriptum , and so on , ad infinitum ) are used , though only PPS has somewhat common usage .
Preservation of the penis in formalin results in a leathery gray rod and retention of the thickness and volume of the original organ is usually not satisfactory as a display keepsake .
Action Against Hunger train local teams and communities to maintain equipment and work with the population on the importance of clean water and sanitation .
Action Against Hunger raises awareness about hunger and seeks to alert the international community when human rights , especially the right to food , are violated .
This informal assemblage of adventurers , which was dubbed `` Athletes Against Hunger '' , have devoted their time , resources , and hard work to bringing an end to malnutrition .
Action Against Hunger new appeal , Love Food Give Food , asks all those who love food to get involved and raise funds to save the lives of malnourished children .
All families of bacterial viruses with circular ( single-stranded or double-stranded ) DNA genomes or replicating their genomes through a circular intermediate ( e.g. , tailed dsDNA viruses ) have temperate members .
A parade ( also called march or marchpast ) is a procession of people , usually organized along a street , often in costume , and often accompanied by marching bands , floats or sometimes large balloons .
In Britain the term parade is usually reserved for either military Parade or other occasions where participants march in formation ; for celebratory occasions the word procession is more usual .
In addition , peek ( in this context often called find-max or find-min ) , which returns the highest priority element but does not modify Priority queue , is very frequently implemented , and nearly always executes in O ( 1 ) time .
The Standard Template Library ( STL ) , and the C++ 1998 standard , specifies priority_queue as one of the STL container adaptor class templates .
This ensures that the prioritized traffic ( such as real-time traffic , e.g. an RTP stream of a VoIP connection ) is forwarded with the least delay and the least likelihood of being rejected due to a queue reaching Priority queue maximum capacity .
A more creative yet widely reported etymology divides pāramitā into pāra and mita , with pāra meaning `` beyond , '' `` the further bank , shore or boundary , '' and mita , meaning `` that which has arrived , '' or ita meaning `` that which goes '' .
The oldest parts of the Sutta Piṭaka ( for example , Majjhima Nikāya , Digha Nikāya , Saṃyutta Nikāya and the Aṅguttara Nikāya ) do not have any mention of the pāramitās as a category ( though they are all mentioned individually ) .
Bodhi ( 2005 ) maintains that , in the earliest Buddhist texts ( which he identifies as the first four nikāyas ) , those seeking the extinction of suffering ( nibbana ) pursued the noble eightfold path.It should be noted that in established Theravāda tradition the pāramīs are not regarded as a discipline peculiar to candidates for Buddhahood alone but as practices which must be fulfilled by all aspirants to enlightenment and deliverance , whether as Buddhas , paccekabuddhas , or disciples .
`` Transcendental '' does not refer to some external reality , but rather to the way in which we conduct our lives and perceive the world - either in an egocentric or a non-egocentric way .
Outline of public affairs is provided as an overview of and topical guide to public affairs : Public affairs -- catch-all term that includes public policy as well as public administration , both of which are closely related to and draw upon the fields of political science and economics .
The word Prakrit Prakrit has a flexible definition , being defined sometimes as `` original , natural , artless , normal , ordinary , usual '' , or `` vernacular '' , in contrast to the literary and religious orthodoxy of Sanskrit .
Characters each spoke a different Prakrit based on their role and background ; for example , Dramili was the language of `` forest-dwellers '' , Sauraseni was spoken by `` the heroine and her female friends '' , and Avanti was spoken by `` cheats and rogues '' .
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky , anglicised as Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky , was a Russian composer whose works included symphonies , concertos , operas , ballets , chamber music , and a choral setting of the Russian Orthodox Divine Liturgy .
Russian culture exhibited a split personality , with its native and adopted elements having drifted apart increasingly since the time of Peter the Great , and this resulted in uncertainty among the intelligentsia of the country 's national identity .
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky mother , Alexandra Andreyevna née d'Assier , the second of Ilya 's three wives , was 18 years her husband 's junior and of French ancestry on her father 's side .
Alexandra married Lev Davydov and had seven children , one of whom , Vladimir Davydov , became very close to the composer , who nicknamed Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky ` Bob ' .
While Tchaikovsky , at four and a half , was initially considered too young to begin studies , Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky insistence convinced Dürbach otherwise .
Tchaikovsky became attached to the young woman and her affection for Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky is said to have provided a counter to Tchaikovsky 's mother , who has been described as a cold , unhappy , distant parent , although others assert that the mother doted on her son .
As the minimum age for acceptance was 12 and Tchaikovsky was only 10 at the time , Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky was required to spend two years boarding at the Imperial School of Jurisprudence 's preparatory school , 800 mi from Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky family .
No public education system in music existed at the time in Russia and private education , especially in composition , was erratic .
Rubinstein , director and founder of the Conservatory , taught instrumentation and composition .
Moreover , they saw Western-style conservatories as unnecessary and antipathetic to fostering native talent ; imposing foreign academics and regimentation would stifle the Russian qualities Balakirev and Stassov wished to nurture .
Between these projects , Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky started to compose an opera called Mandragora , to a libretto by Sergei Rachinskii ; the only music Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky completed was a short chorus of Flowers and Insects .
Discussion of Tchaikovsky 's personal life , especially Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky sexuality , has perhaps been the most extensive of any composer in the 19th century and certainly of any Russian composer of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky time .
Another group of scholars , which includes Alexander Poznansky and Roland John Wiley , have more recently suggested that the composer experienced `` no unbearable guilt '' over Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky sexual nature and `` eventually came to see Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky sexual peculiarities as an insurmountable and even natural part of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky personality ... without experiencing any serious psychological damage '' .
While Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky father continued to hope Tchaikovsky would marry ( and may have been unaware of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky son 's orientation ) , other members of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky loving and supportive family remained more open-minded .
Musicologist Solomon Volkov mentions state documents that indicate men attracted to the same sex `` were under tight police surveillance '' and maintains that public life in Russia was `` based not on laws but on ` understandings ' .
There is no reason however to suppose that these personal travails impacted negatively on the quality of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky musical inspiration or capacity .
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky and Shilovsky , who may have also been homosexual , had shared a mutual bond of affection for just over a decade .
Second , while Belyayev , Mamontov and Tretyakov made a public display of their largess , von Meck conducted her support of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky as a largely private matter .
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky also warned conductor Eduard Nápravník that `` Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky sha n't be at all surprised and offended if you find that it is in a style unsuitable for symphony concerts '' .
Now 44 years old , in 1884 Tchaikovsky began to shed Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky unsociability and restlessness .
By having the opera staged there and not at the Mariinsky Theatre , Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky served notice that Tchaikovsky 's music was replacing Italian opera as the official imperial art .
In addition , thanks to Ivan Vsevolozhsky , Director of the Imperial Theaters and a patron of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky , Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky was awarded a lifetime annual pension of 3,000 rubles from the Tsar .
Despite Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky disdain for public life , Tchaikovsky now participated in it both as a consequence of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky increasing celebrity and because Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky felt it Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky duty to promote Russian music .
In this post , Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky invited many international celebrities to conduct , including Johannes Brahms , Antonín Dvořák and Jules Massenet , although not all of them accepted .
Although critics proved hostile , with César Cui calling the symphony `` routine '' and `` meretricious '' , both works were received with extreme enthusiasm by audiences and Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky , undeterred , continued to conduct the symphony in Russia and Europe .
American music critic and journalist Harold C. Schonberg wrote of Tchaikovsky 's `` sweet , inexhaustible , supersensuous fund of melody , '' a feature that has ensured Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky music 's continued success with audiences .
This , Brown says , was typical of Russian creativity , which functioned with a mindset of stasis and repetition rather than the one of progress and ongoing development that dominated Western creative thought .
Modulation , the shifting from one key to another , was a driving principle in both harmony and sonata form , the primary Western large-scale musical structure since the middle of the 18th century .
That flair , added to Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky Conservatory studies , may have aided Tchaikovsky in employing a varied range of harmony in Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky music , from the Western harmonic and textural practices of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky first two string quartets to the use of the whole tone scale in the center of the finale of the Second Symphony , a practice more typically used by The Five .
Occasionally , though , Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky falls back on Russian practice , in Romeo oscillating at times `` between passages of almost static harmony and others where the fundamental bass movement is solidly , sometimes swiftly , in fifths '' .
This was a practice taken from Glinka 's opera Ruslan and Lyudmila , Brown says , and became `` a minor fingerprint of Russian harmony '' .
An important part of this process , Keller states , is that `` thematic and harmonic contrasts '' are `` not allowed to coincide '' .
Tension occurs when the music ( and the listener with it ) is pulled away from the tonic .
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky wrote to von Meck in 1880 , `` What a stunningly original piece is Kamarinskaya , from which all Russian composers up to the present day ( and Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky , of course , among them ) draw , in the most obvious fashion , contrapuntal and harmonic combinations as soon as they have to develop a Russian dance tune '' .
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky , however , became noted for the `` sensual opulence '' and `` voluptuous timbrel virtuosity '' of his scoring .
Nevertheless , partly due to the composer 's nature and partly due to the melodic and structural intricacies of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky compositional style , expressive intensity came as a direct product of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky music making .
Soviet musicologist Aleksandr Ossovsky writes of the two men , `` With a hidden passion they both stop at moments of horror , total spiritual collapse , and finding acute sweetness in the cold trepidation of the heart before the abyss , they both force the reader to experience those feelings , too '' .
In this regard , Asafyev suggests , the composer could be considered an emotional dramatist in music , `` with a gift for directing the attention of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky hearers to the action of the sound images as effectively as the great classical dramatists , and primarily Shakespeare '' .
The influence of the psychologically realistic principles propounded by Schumann proved stronger and more fruitful than the results he Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky achieved ... This was achieved by Tchaikovsky who became not only the `` regisseur stage director of human emotion '' as expressed through opera and plays but a dramatic symphonist and thinker .
This active engagement with the music `` opened for the listener a vista of emotional and psychological tension and an extremity of feeling that possessed relevance because it seemed reminiscent of one 's own ` truly lived and felt experience ' or one 's search for intensity in a deeply personal sense '' .
This practice , which Alexandre Benois calls `` passé-ism , '' lends an air of timelessness and immediacy , making the past seem as though it were the present .
Pandemonium , delerium tremens , raving , and above all , noise worse confounded !
The division between Russian and Western critics remained through much of the 20th century but for a different reason .
While Russian critics and musicologists such as Asafyev considered it musical snobbery , comments such as British musicologist Edward Lockspeiser 's on `` the garish exteriorisation of a composer who can never refrain from wearing Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky heart on Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky sleeve '' remained typical in the West for this time .
Conservative critics , Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky adds , may have felt threatened by the `` violence and ` hysteria ' '' they detected and felt such emotive displays `` attacked the boundaries of conventional aesthetic appreciation -- the cultured reception of art as an act of formalist discernment -- and the polite engagement of art as an act of amusement '' .
In a 1992 article , New York Times critic Allan Kozinn writes , `` It is Tchaikovsky 's flexibility , after all , that has given us a sense of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky variability ... Tchaikovsky was capable of turning out music -- entertaining and widely beloved though it is -- that seems superficial , manipulative and trivial when regarded in the context of the whole literature .
Along with those tunes , Botstein adds , `` Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky appealed to audiences outside of Russia with an immediacy and directness that were startling even for music , an art form often associated with emotion '' .
Wiley and Holden both note that Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky did all this without a native school of composition upon which to fall back .
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky friend , music critic Hermann Laroche , wrote of The Sleeping Beauty that the score contained `` an element deeper and more general than color , in the internal structure of the music , above all in the foundation of the element of melody .
The ` head ' is hydrophilic ( attracted to water ) , while the hydrophobic ` tails ' are repelled by water and are forced to aggregate .
Pierre Trudeau , , usually known as Pierre Trudeau or Pierre Elliott Trudeau , was the 15th Prime Minister of Canada from April 20 , 1968 to June 4 , 1979 , and again from March 3 , 1980 to June 30 , 1984 .
Pierre Trudeau had an older sister named Suzette and a younger brother named Charles Jr. ; Pierre Trudeau remained close to both siblings for Pierre Trudeau entire life .
Lalonde asserts that Trudeau 's later intellectual development as an `` intellectual rebel , anti-establishment fighter on behalf of unions and promoter of religious freedom '' came from Pierre Trudeau experiences after leaving Quebec to study in the United States , France and England , and to travel to dozens of countries .
At Harvard , Trudeau found Pierre Trudeau profoundly challenged as Pierre Trudeau discovered that Pierre Trudeau '' ... legal training was deficient , and Pierre Trudeau knowledge of economics was pathetic '' .
This cemented Trudeau 's belief that Keynesian economics and social science were essential to the creation of the `` good life '' in democratic society .
This is attributed to a few factors : ( 1 ) Pierre Trudeau felt the federal NDP could not achieve power , because of Tommy Douglas 's inability to attract voters in Quebec , ( 2 ) Trudeau expressed doubts about the centralizing policies of Canada 's socialists ( Pierre Trudeau favoured a more decentralized approach ) , and ( 3 ) there were `` real differences '' between Pierre Trudeau approach and the NDP 's `` two nations '' approach to the Canadian constitution and the role of Quebec within Canada .
In economic theory Pierre Trudeau was influenced by professors Joseph Schumpeter and John Kenneth Galbraith while Pierre Trudeau was at Harvard .
Leading after Pierre Trudeau endorsement of Lester Pearson 's Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism , the Official Languages Act was passed by parliament in 1969 .
Trudeau later ( in October 1975 ) instituted wage and price controls , as did Reagan in the United States during the period of the Great Inflation .
A worsening economy , burgeoning national debt , and growing public antipathy towards Trudeau 's perceived arrogance caused Pierre Trudeau poll numbers to fall rapidly in the mid and late 1970s Trudeau delayed calling the 31st Canadian general election as long as Pierre Trudeau could , but was forced to call one in the spring of 1979 .
Amongst the policies introduced by Trudeau 's last term in office included an expansion in government support for Canada 's poorest citizens and the introduction of the National Energy Program ( NEP ) , which created a firestorm of protest in the Western provinces and increased what many termed `` Western alienation '' .
In the debates between Pierre Trudeau and Lévesque , Canadians were treated to a contest between two highly intelligent , articulate and bilingual politicians who , despite being bitterly opposed , were each committed to the democratic process .
Pierre Trudeau promised a new constitutional agreement with Quebec should it decide to stay in Canada , and the `` No '' side ( that is , No to sovereignty ) ended up receiving nearly 60 % of the vote .
Quebec 's refusal to agree to the new constitution became a source of continued acrimony between the federal and Quebec governments .
Though Pierre Trudeau rarely gave speeches or spoke to the press , Pierre Trudeau interventions into public debate had a significant impact when they occurred .
The first Trudeau to arrived in Canada was Etienne Trudeau ( 1641-1712 ) , a carpenter and home builder in 1659 .
Described as a `` swinging young bachelor '' when Pierre Trudeau became prime minister in 1968 , Trudeau dated Hollywood star Barbra Streisand in 1969 and 1970 ; Trudeau and Streisand had a serious romantic relationship although ( contrary to one published report ) , there was no express marriage proposal .
Eventually , Justin did enter politics , was elected to the House of Commons in late 2008 and in April 2013 Pierre Trudeau became the leader of the federal Liberal Party .
While mostly private about Pierre Trudeau beliefs , Pierre Trudeau made it clear that Pierre Trudeau was a believer , stating , in an interview with the United Church Observer in 1971 : `` Pierre Trudeau believe in life after death , Pierre Trudeau believe in God and Pierre Trudeau 'm a Christian '' .
Section 35 of the Constitution Act , 1982 , has clarified issues of aboriginal and equality rights , including establishing the previously denied aboriginal rights of Métis .
Estimates have placed Alberta 's losses between $ 50 billion and $ 100 billion because of the NEP .
More particularly , two incidents involving Pierre Trudeau are remembered as having fostered Western alienation , and as emblematic of it .
However , Pierre Trudeau imposition of the War Measures Act -- which received majority support at the time -- is remembered by some in Quebec and elsewhere as an attack on democracy .
Lending substance to the phrase `` the style is the man , '' Pierre Trudeau has imparted , both in Pierre Trudeau and on the world stage , Pierre Trudeau quintessentially personal philosophy of modern politics .
The case prevents Pencil from breaking , and also from marking the user 's hand during use .
Pencil , from Old French pincel , a small paintbrush , from Latin a `` little tail '' ( see penis -- pincellus is Latin from the post-classical period ) is an artist 's fine brush of camel hair , also used for writing before modern lead or chalk pencils ; the meaning of `` graphite writing implement '' apparently evolved late in the 16th century .
Though Pencil was an artist 's brush , the stylus , a thin metal stick used for scratching in papyrus or wax tablets , was used extensively by the Romans , and for palm-leaf manuscripts .
The words for pencil in German ( Bleistift ) , Irish ( Peann Luaidhe ) , Arabic ( قلم رصاص qalam raṣāṣ ) , and other languages literally mean lead pen .
Munroe 's method of making Pencil was painstakingly slow , and in the neighbouring town of Acton , a pencil mill owner named Ebenezer Wood set out to automate the process at his own pencil mill located at Nashoba Brook along the old Davis Road .
Joseph Dixon , an inventor and entrepreneur involved with the Tantiusques granite mine in Sturbridge , Massachusetts , developed a means to mass-produce Pencil .
Many pencils across the world , and almost all in Europe , are graded on the European system using a continuum from `` H '' ( for hardness ) to `` B '' ( for blackness ) , as well as `` F '' , a letter arbitrarily chosen to indicate midway between HB and H. ( Pencil is a persistent myth that `` F '' stands for `` Fine '' ; grade F pencils are no more fine or easily sharpened than any other grade ) .
For example , for Pencil Graphic pencils Derwent offers three packages of 12 pencils each : Technical ( with hard grades from 9H to B ) , Sketching ( with soft grades H to 9B ) , and Designer ( with medium grades 4H to 6B ) .
In southern European countries pencils tend to be dark red or black with yellow lines , while in Australia Pencil are red with black bands at one end .
Pioneered by Taiwanese stationery manufacturer Bensia Pioneer Industrial Corporation in the early 70 's , the product is also known as Bensia Pencils , non-sharpening pencils , is a type of pencil where many sharp points are housed in the body of the pencil in cartridge style plastic holders , removing a blunt point by pulling Pencil from the writing end of the body and re-inserting it to the top of the body causes the next point to appear from the writing end of the pencil body .
Invented by Harold Grossman for Empire Pencil Company in 1967 and subsequently improved upon by Arthur D. Little for Empire from 1969 through the early 1970s ; the plastic pencil was commercialised by Empire as the `` EPCON '' Pencil .
Penetration of the pencil lead into the body commonly leads to severe and debilitating effects such as fever , anaemia , elevated white cell count , gastro-intestinal upset , kidney and liver damage , anorexia and necrosis of the tissue surrounding the wound .
Pierre Curie ( 15 May 1859 -- 19 April 1906 ) was a French physicist , a pioneer in crystallography , magnetism , piezoelectricity and radioactivity .
In 1880 , Pierre and Pierre Curie older brother Jacques ( 1856 -- 1941 ) demonstrated that an electric potential was generated when crystals were compressed , i.e. piezoelectricity .
Their work , including Marie 's celebrated doctoral work , made use of a sensitive piezoelectric electrometer constructed by Pierre and Pierre Curie brother Jacques .
Pierre Curie also investigated the radiation emissions of radioactive substances , and through the use of magnetic fields was able to show that some of the emissions were positively charged , some were negative and some were neutral .
Finite state machines just look at the input signal and the current state : Pushdown automaton have no stack to work with .
The choice of manipulation ( or no manipulation ) is determined by the transition table .
The computation starts in the initial state with the initial stack symbol on the stack , and a string on the input tape , thus with initial description .
The pushdown automaton either accepts by final state , which means after reading Pushdown automaton input the automaton reaches an accepting state ( in ) , or Pushdown automaton accepts by empty stack , which means after reading Pushdown automaton input the automaton empties Pushdown automaton stack .
For Pushdown automaton one may construct Pushdown automaton such that , and vice versa , for Pushdown automaton one may construct Pushdown automaton such that Every context-free grammar can be transformed into Pushdown automaton .
A GPDA is formally defined as a 6-tuple : where Q , , , q0 and F are defined the same way as a PDA.
GPDA 's and PDA 's are equivalent in that if a language is recognized by a PDA , Pushdown automaton is also recognized by a GPDA and vice versa .
Despite these data and later evidence that proteolytically digested proteins yielded only oligopeptides , the idea that proteins were linear , unbranched polymers of amino acids was not accepted immediately .
This hypothesis was disproved in the 1920s by ultracentrifugation measurements by Theodor Svedberg that showed that proteins had a well-defined , reproducible molecular weight and by electrophoretic measurements by Arne Tiselius that indicated that proteins were single molecules .
Peter Principle was formulated by Laurence J. Peter and Raymond Hull in their 1969 book The Peter Principle , a humorous treatise , which also introduced the `` salutary science of hierarchiology '' .
He observed Peter Principle applied to hardware , e.g. , vacuum cleaners as aspirators , and to administrative devices , such as the `` Safety Evaluations '' used for managing change .
One way that organizations can avoid this effect is by having an `` up or out '' policy that requires termination of an employee who fails to attain a promotion after a certain amount of time .
Although counter-intuitive , Peter Principle found that the best way to improve efficiency in an enterprise is to promote people randomly , or to shortlist the best and the worst performer in a given group , from which the person to be promoted is then selected randomly .
Plato 's Forms include numbers and geometrical figures , making them a theory of mathematical realism ; Platonic realism also include the Form of the Good , making them in addition a theory of ethical realism .
For example , a particular apple is said to be a copy of the form of Applehood and the apple 's redness is an instance of the form of Redness .
Participation is another relationship between forms and particulars .
So , since the critic already grasps the relation between the abstract and the concrete , he is invited to stop thinking that Platonic realism implies a contradiction .
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled trials of these drugs , however , show either no significant difference between drug and placebo , or a very small effect size , suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system .
Common themes of delusions are persecutory ( person believes that others are out to harm him ) , grandiose ( person believing that he or she has special powers or skills ) etc. Depressed persons may have delusions consistent with their low mood e.g : delusions that Psychosis have sinned , or have contracted serious illness etc. Karl Jaspers has classified psychotic delusions into primary and secondary types .
From a diagnostic standpoint , organic disorders were those held to be caused by physical illness affecting the brain ( that is , psychiatric disorders secondary to other conditions ) , while functional disorders were considered to be disorders of the functioning of the mind in the absence of physical disorders ( that is , primary psychological or psychiatric disorders ) .
The materialistic view of the mind -- body problem holds that mental disorders arise from physical processes ; in this view , the distinction between brain and mind , and therefore between organic and functional disease , is an artificial one .
Individuals who have a substance induced psychosis tend to have a greater awareness of their psychosis and tend to have higher levels of suicidal thinking compared to individuals who have a primary psychotic illness .
Some studies indicate that the effects of the two active compounds in cannabis , Tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) and Cannabidiol ( CBD ) , are separable with respect to psychosis .
Those who have had a short-lived psychosis from methamphetamine can have a relapse of the methamphetamine psychosis years later after a stress event such as severe insomnia or a period of heavy alcohol abuse despite not relapsing back to methamphetamine .
Findings such as these have led to debate about whether psychosis Psychosis causes excitotoxic brain damage and whether potentially damaging changes to the brain are related to the length of psychotic episode .
However , the main feature of psychosis is not hallucinations , but the inability to distinguish between internal and external stimuli .
This theory is reinforced by the fact that dissociative NMDA receptor antagonists such as ketamine , PCP and dextromethorphan ( at large overdoses ) induce a psychotic state more readily than dopaminergic stimulants , even at `` normal '' recreational doses .
The Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale ( BPRS ) assesses the level of 18 symptom constructs of psychosis such as hostility , suspicion , hallucination , and grandiosity .
Establishing the cause of psychosis requires clinical examination , and sometimes special investigations , to diagnose or exclude secondary causes of psychosis ; if these are excluded , a primary psychiatric diagnosis can be established .
Nancy Andreasen has argued for an association between antipsychotic drugs and smaller grey matter volumes independent of illness severity .
The division of the major psychoses into manic depressive illness ( now called bipolar disorder ) and dementia praecox ( now called schizophrenia ) was made by Emil Kraepelin , who attempted to create a synthesis of the various mental disorders identified by 19th century psychiatrists , by grouping diseases together based on classification of common symptoms .
Since the 1970s , the introduction of a recovery approach to mental health , which has been driven mainly by people who have experienced psychosis ( or whatever name is used to describe their experiences ) , has led to a greater awareness that mental illness is not a lifelong disability , and that there is an expectation that recovery is possible , and probable with effective support .
Paranoia ( adjective : Paranoia ) is a thought process believed to be heavily influenced by anxiety or fear , often to the point of irrationality and delusion .
For example , an incident most people would view as an accident or coincidence , a Paranoia person might believe was intentional .
Employed as an adjective , Paranoia has become attached to a diverse set of presentations , from Paranoia schizophrenia , through Paranoia depression , to Paranoia personality -- not to mention a motley collection of paranoid ` psychoses ' , ` reactions ' , and ` states ' -- and this is to restrict discussion to functional disorders .
Polybius father , Lycortas , was a prominent , land-owning politician and member of the governing class .
Most influential was Book 6 , which describes the military and political organization of Rome ; it presented Rome as a state in which monarchical , aristocratic , and popular elements were in a stable equilibrium .
According to this view , Polybius work sets forth the course of history 's occurrences with clearness , penetration , sound judgment , and among the circumstances affecting the outcomes , lays especial emphasis on the geographical conditions .
First as a hostage in Rome , then as client to the Scipios , and finally as a collaborator with Roman rule after 146 BC , Polybius was not in a position to freely express any negative opinions of Rome .
In fact , observations made by Polybius , in conjunction with passages from Strabo and Scylax , allowed the discovery of the location of the lost city of Kydonia on Crete .
Despite the existence of both printed editions in the vernacular and increased scholarly interest , however , Polybius remained an `` Polybius historian '' , not much read by the public at large .
Printings of Polybius work in the vernacular remained few in number -- seven in French , five in English , and five in Italian .
Plutarch then named , on Plutarch becoming a Roman citizen , Lucius Mestrius Plutarchus , c. 46 -- 120 AD , was a Greek historian , biographer , and essayist , known primarily for Plutarch Parallel Lives and Moralia .
Plutarch had a number of influential friends , including Quintus Sosius Senecio and Fundanus , both important senators , to whom some of Plutarch later writings were dedicated .
Plutarch lived most of Plutarch life at Chaeronea , and was initiated into the mysteries of the Greek god Apollo .
Plutarch led an active social and civic life while producing an extensive body of writing , much of which is still extant .
Plutarch died between the years AD 119 and 127 .
`` The Caesars ' house in Rome , the Palatium , received in a shorter space of time no less than four Emperors , '' Plutarch writes , `` passing , as it were , across the stage , and one making room for another to enter '' ( Galba 1 ) .
As is explained in the opening paragraph of Plutarch Life of Alexander , Plutarch was not concerned with history so much as the influence of character , good or bad , on the lives and destinies of men .
Much , too , is made of Alexander 's scorn for luxury : `` Plutarch desired not pleasure or wealth , but only excellence and glory '' .
This is mostly true , for Alexander 's tastes grew more extravagant as Plutarch grew older only in the last year of Plutarch life and only as a means of approaching the image of a ruler Plutarch Persian subjects were better accustomed to - thus making it easier for Plutarch to succeed in uniting the Greek and Persian worlds together , according to the plan Plutarch had announced in Plutarch famous Speech given in Opis in 324 BC .
The book ends on telling the destiny of Plutarch murderers , and says that Caesar 's `` great guardian-genius '' avenged Plutarch after life .
In Plutarch Life of Pompey , Plutarch praises Pompey 's trustworthy character and tactful behaviour in order to conjure a moral judgement that opposes most historical accounts .
Some editions of the Moralia include several works now known to be pseudepigrapha : among these are the Lives of the Ten Orators ( biographies of the Ten Orators of ancient Athens , based on Caecilius of Calacte ) , The Doctrines of the Philosophers , and On Music .
Also missing are many of Plutarch Lives which appear in a list of Plutarch writings , those of Hercules , the first pair of Parallel Lives , Scipio Africanus and Epaminondas , and the companions to the four solo biographies .
Plutarch strongly defends freedom of the will , and the immortality of the soul .
However pure Plutarch 's idea of God is , and however vivid Plutarch description of the vice and corruption which superstition causes , Plutarch warm religious feelings and Plutarch distrust of human powers of knowledge led Plutarch to believe that God comes to our aid by direct revelations , which we perceive the more clearly the more completely that we refrain in `` enthusiasm '' from all action ; this made it possible for Plutarch to justify popular belief in divination in the way which had long been usual among the Stoics .
Ralph Waldo Emerson and the Transcendentalists were greatly influenced by the Moralia -- so much so , in fact , that Emerson called the Lives `` a bible for heroes '' in Plutarch glowing introduction to the five-volume 19th-century edition .
Giuliano Pisani , Moralia Plutarch - `` La serenità interiore '' e altri testi sulla terapia dell ` anima , with Greek text , Italian translation , introduction and notes , La Biblioteca dell ` Immagine , Pordenone 1989 , pp .
LIX-508 ( De tranquillitate animi ; De virtute et vitio ; De virtute morali ; An virtus doceri possit ; Quomodo quis suos in virtute sentiat profectus ; Animine an corporis affectiones sint peiores ; De vitioso pudore ; De cohibenda ira ; De garrulitate ; De curiositate ; De invidia et odio ; De cupiditate divitiarum ) Giuliano Pisani , Moralia II - L'educazione dei ragazzi , with Greek text , Italian translation , introduction and notes , La Biblioteca dell ` Immagine , Pordenone , 1990 , pp .
The first volume , Roman Lives , first published in 1954 , presents the translations of Joseph G. Liebes to the biographies of Coriolanus , Fabius Maximus , Tiberius Gracchus and Gaius Gracchus , Cato the Elder and Cato the Younger , Gaius Marius , Sulla , Sertorius , Lucullus , Pompey , Crassus , Cicero , Julius Caesar , Brutus and Mark Anthony .
The second volume , Greek Lives , first published in 1971 presents A. A. Halevy 's translations of the biographies of Lycurgus , Aristides , Cimon , Pericles , Nicias , Lysander , Agesilaus , Pelopidas , Dion , Timoleon , Demosthenes , Alexander the Great , Eumenes and Phocion .
The third volume , Greek and Roman Lives , published in 1973 , presented the remaining biographies and parallels as translated by Halevy .
In the introduction to the third volume Halevy explains that originally the Bialik Institute intended to publish only a selection of biographies , leaving out mythological figures and biographies that had no parallels .
Peter Sellers , ( born Peter Sellers ; 8 September 1925 -- 24 July 1980 ) , was a British film actor , comedian and singer .
Notable films demonstrating Peter Sellers artistic range include Peter Sellers 'm All Right Jack ( 1959 ) ; Stanley Kubrick 's Lolita ( 1962 ) and Dr. Strangelove ( 1964 ) ; What 's New , Pussycat ?
Peter Sellers behaviour was often erratic and compulsive , and Peter Sellers frequently clashed with Peter Sellers directors and co-stars , especially in the mid-1970s when Peter Sellers physical and mental health , together with Peter Sellers alcohol and drug problems , were at their worst .
Peg Sellers was related to the pugilist Daniel Mendoza ( 1764 -- 1836 ) , an ancestor whom Sellers greatly revered , and whose engraving later hung in Peter Sellers office .
Later in Peter Sellers life , Sellers observed that while Peter Sellers father 's faith was according to the Church of England , Peter Sellers mother was Jewish , `` and Jews take the faith of their mother '' .
Spike Milligan later noted that Sellers was very proficient on the drums and might have remained a jazz drummer , had Peter Sellers lacked Peter Sellers mimicry and improvisation skills .
In September 1943 , Peter Sellers joined the Royal Air Force , although it is unclear whether Peter Sellers volunteered or was conscripted ; Peter Sellers mother unsuccessfully tried to have Peter Sellers deferred on medical grounds .
Peter Sellers found these duties dull , so auditioned for Squadron Leader Ralph Reader 's RAF Gang Show entertainment troupe : Reader accepted Peter Sellers and Sellers toured the UK before the troupe was transferred to India .
Sellers released Peter Sellers first studio album in 1958 called The Best of Sellers ; a collection of sketches and comic songs , the latter of which were undertaken in a variety of comic characters .
Before the release of that film , the Boultings , along with Sellers and Thomas in the cast , started filming Peter Sellers 'm All Right Jack , which became the highest grossing film at the British box office in 1960 .
A follow-up single by the duo , Bangers and Mash , reached number 22 in the UK chart .
The film was widely criticised for its slapstick cinematic adaption , and director Guillermin Peter Sellers considered the film an `` amateurish '' effort .
The Pink Panther was released in January 1964 , and received a mixed reception from the critics , although Penelope Gilliatt , writing in The Observer , remarked that Peter Sellers had a `` flawless sense of mistiming '' in a performance that was '' ... one of the most delicate studies in accident-proneness since the silents '' .
The three roles Sellers undertook were distinct , `` variegated , complex and refined '' , and critic Alexander Walker considered that these roles `` showed Peter Sellers genius at full stretch '' .
Sellers played Muffley as a bland , placid intellectual in the mould of Adlai Stevenson ; Peter Sellers played Mandrake as an unflappable Englishman ; and Dr. Strangelove , a character influenced by pre-war German cinema , as a wheelchair-bound fanatic .
The critic for The Times wrote that the film includes , `` three remarkable performances from Mr. Peter Sellers , masterly as the President , diverting as a revue-sketch ex-Nazi US Scientist ... and acceptable as an RAF officer , although the critic from The Guardian thought Peter Sellers portrayal of the RAF officer alone was , `` worth the price of an admission ticket '' .
Between November 1963 and February 1964 , Peter Sellers began filming A Shot in the Dark , an adaptation of a French play , L'Idiote by Marcel Achard .
Peter Sellers found the part and the director , Anatole Litvak , uninspiring ; the producers brought in Blake Edwards to replace Litvak .
Upon its release in late June 1964 , Bosley Crowther noted the `` joyously free and facile way '' in which Sellers had developed Peter Sellers comedy technique .
Sellers soon showed signs of insecurity and paranoia ; Peter Sellers would become highly anxious and jealous , for example , when Ekland starred opposite attractive men .
Peter Sellers illness forced Peter Sellers to withdraw from the filming of Kiss Peter Sellers , Stupid and Peter Sellers was replaced by Ray Walston .
, Charles Feldman again brought together Sellers and Woody Allen for Peter Sellers next project , Casino Royale , which also starred Orson Welles ; Sellers signed a $ 1 million contract for the film ( $ in dollars ) .
The day before the investiture at Buckingham Palace , Sellers and Ekland argued , with Ekland scratching Peter Sellers face in the process ; Sellers had a make-up artist cover the marks .
Peter Sellers character , according to Sellers 's biographer Peter Evans , was `` clearly an amalgam of Clouseau and the doctor in The Millionairess '' .
After a cameo appearance in A Day at the Beach ( 1970 ) , and a serious role later in 1970 as an ageing businessman who seduces Sinéad Cusack in Hoffman , Sellers starred in Roy Boulting 's There 's a Girl in Peter Sellers Soup opposite Goldie Hawn .
Andrew Spicer , writing for the British Film Institute 's Screenonline , considers that although Sellers favoured playing romantic roles , Peter Sellers `` was always more successful in parts that sent up Peter Sellers own vanities and pretensions , as with the TV presenter and narcissistic lothario Peter Sellers played in There 's a Girl in Peter Sellers Soup '' .
Directors John and Roy Boulting considered that Peter Sellers was `` a deeply troubled man , distrustful , self-absorbed , ultimately self-destructive .
During the filming from February to June 1976 , the already fraught relationship between Peter Sellers and Blake Edwards had seriously deteriorated .
Edwards says of Peter Sellers mental state at the time of The Pink Panther Strikes Again , `` If you went to an asylum and you described the first inmate you saw , that 's what Peter Sellers had become .
Biographer Roger Lewis documents that of all of Sellers 's wives , Frederick was the most poorly treated ; Julian Upton likened it to a boxing match between a heavyweight and a featherweight , a relationship that `` oscillated from ardour to hatred , reconciliation and remorse '' .
However , Philip French , for The Observer , was unimpressed by the film , describing it as `` a mess of porridge '' and stating that `` Sellers reveals that Peter Sellers can not draw the line between the sincere and the sentimental '' .
Later in 1979 , Peter Sellers starred opposite Shirley MacLaine , Melvyn Douglas and Jack Warden in the black comedy Being There as Chance , a mindless , emotionless gardener addicted to watching TV .
In a BBC interview in 1971 , Sellers had said that more than anything else , Peter Sellers wanted to play the role , and successfully persuaded the author of the book Jerzy Kosinski to allow Peter Sellers and director Hal Ashby to make the film , provided Peter Sellers could write the script .
Sellers considered Chance 's walking and voice the character 's most important attributes , and in preparing for the role , Peter Sellers worked alone with a tape recorder , or with Peter Sellers wife , and then with Ashby , to perfect the clear enunciation and flat delivery needed to reveal `` the childlike mind behind the words '' .
Critic Frank Rich wrote that the acting skill required for this sort of role , with a `` schismatic personality that Peter had to convey with strenuous vocal and gestural technique ... A lesser actor would have made the character 's mental dysfunction flamboyant and drastic ... Peter Sellers intelligence was always deeper , Peter Sellers onscreen confidence greater , Peter Sellers technique much more finely honed '' : in achieving this , Sellers `` makes the film 's fantastic premise credible '' .
The production of Peter Sellers was troublesome before filming started , with two directors -- Richard Quine and John Avildsen -- both fired before the script had been completed .
After two days in care -- and against the advice of Peter Sellers doctors -- Peter Sellers travelled to the Cannes Film Festival , where Being There was in competition .
Following Sellers 's death , fellow actor Richard Attenborough said that Sellers `` had the genius comparable to Chaplin '' , while the Boulting brothers considered Sellers as `` a man of enormous gifts ; and these gifts Peter Sellers gave to the world .
Vincent Canby of The New York Times said of the Pink Panther films , `` Peter Sellers 'm not sure why Mr. Sellers and Mr. Lom are such a hilarious team , though it may be because each is a fine comic actor with a special talent for portraying the sort of all-consuming , epic self-absorption that makes slapstick farce initially acceptable -- instead of alarming -- and finally so funny '' .
Wesson considers that `` As ` low ' and ` high ' comedy rolled into one , it 's the performative counterpoint to Edwardian sophisticated naturalism '' .
This combination of `` high '' and `` low '' , exemplified by Clouseau 's attempting to retain dignity after a fall , means that within Peter Sellers Clouseau was `` the sole representative of humanity '' .
Sultanik agreed , commenting that Sellers 's `` exceptional vocal and physical technique '' was under-used during Peter Sellers career in the US .
Sellers 's friend and Goon Show colleague Spike Milligan said that Sellers `` had one of the most glittering comic talents of Peter Sellers age '' , while John and Roy Boulting noted that Peter Sellers was `` the greatest comic genius this country has produced since Charles Chaplin '' .
The British actor Stephen Mangan stated that Peter Sellers was a large influence , as did comedians Alan Carr and Rob Brydon .
Eddie Izzard notes that the Goons `` influenced a new generation of comedians who came to be known as ` alternative ' '' -- including Peter Sellers , while media historian Graham McCann states `` the anarchic spirit of the Goon Show ... would inspire , directly or indirectly and to varying extents , ... The Hitchhiker 's Guide to the Galaxy , The Young Ones , Vic Reeves Big Night Out , The League of Gentlemen and Brass Eye '' .
Although the film was widely praised by critics , both Lord Snowdon and Britt Ekland were highly critical of the film and the enactment of Sellers ; Ekland believed that the film left the audiences with the wrong impression , saying `` the film leaves you with the impression that Peter Sellers was essentially a likeable man when in reality Peter Sellers was a monster .
Pico (text editor) ( Pine composer ) is a text editor for Unix and Unix-based computer systems .
Pico (text editor) is integrated with the Pine e-mail client , which was designed by the main officer Aboli Kasar working in Office of Computing and Communications at the University of Washington .
Pico (text editor) does support search and replace operations .
Pico (text editor) is a text editor for Unix and Unix-based computer systems .
Pico (text editor) is a very simple and easy-to-use text editor offering paragraph justification , cut/paste , and a spelling checker .
For instance , the behavior of water and CO2 at Power law boiling points fall in the same universality class because Power law have identical critical exponents .
In this context , the term is most typically replaced by a deviation term , which can represent uncertainty in the observed values ( perhaps measurement or sampling errors ) or provide a simple way for observations to deviate from the power-law function ( perhaps for stochastic reasons ) : Scientific interest in power-law relations stems partly from the ease with which certain general classes of mechanisms generate them .
Research on the origins of power-law relations , and efforts to observe and validate them in the real world , is an active topic of research in many fields of science , including physics , computer science , linguistics , geophysics , neuroscience , sociology , economics and more .
Power law is primarily in the study of statistical distributions that the name `` power law '' is used ; in other areas the power-law functional form is more often referred to simply as a polynomial form or polynomial function .
Mathematically , a strict power law can not be a probability distribution , but a distribution that is a truncated power function is possible : for where the exponent is greater than 1 ( otherwise the tail has infinite area ) , the minimum value is needed otherwise the distribution has infinite area as x approaches 0 , and the constant C is a scaling factor to ensure that the total area is 1 , as required by a probability distribution .
A power law with an exponential cutoff is simply a power law multiplied by an exponential function : In the most general sense , a power-law probability distribution is a distribution whose density function ( or mass function in the discrete case ) has the form where , and is a slowly varying function , which is any function that satisfies with constant and .
This property of follows directly from the requirement that be asymptotically scale invariant ; thus , the form of only controls the shape and finite extent of the lower tail .
Combining these two cases , and where is a continuous variable , Power law has the form where the pre-factor to is the normalizing constant .
Consequently these models all express a power-law relationship between the variance and the mean .
For real-valued , independent and identically distributed data , we fit a power-law distribution of the form to the data , where the coefficient is included to ensure that the distribution is normalized .
For functions with a non-trivial function , choosing too small produces a significant bias in , while choosing Power law too large increases the uncertainty in , and reduces the statistical power of our model .
In some contexts the probability distribution is described , not by the cumulative distribution function , by the cumulative frequency of a property X , defined as the number of elements per meter ( or area unit , second etc. ) for which X > x applies , where x is a variable real number .
Also , researchers usually have to face the problem of deciding whether or not a real-world probability distribution follows Power law .
Primary pH standard values are determined using a concentration cell with transference , by measuring the potential difference between a hydrogen electrode and a standard electrode such as the silver chloride electrode .
Precise measurement of pH is presented in International Standard ISO 31-8 as follows : A galvanic cell is set up to measure the electromotive force ( e.m.f. ) between a reference electrode and an electrode sensitive to the hydrogen ion activity when they are both immersed in the same aqueous solution .
Measurement of pH below about 2.5 ( ca. 0.003 mol dm − 3 acid ) and above about 10.5 ( ca. 0.0003 mol dm − 3 alkali ) requires special procedures because , when using the glass electrode , the Nernst law breaks down under those conditions .
When a base , or alkali , is dissolved in water , PH will be greater than that of pure water .
This is because PH and hydroxide ions ' activity is dependent on ionic strength , so Kw varies with ionic strength .
These solutions have a relatively low ionic strength ( ~ 0.1 ) compared to that of seawater ( ~ 0.7 ) , and , as a consequence , are not recommended for use in characterizing the pH of seawater , since the ionic strength differences cause changes in electrode potential .
PH dissociates according to the equilibrium with a dissociation constant , Kw defined as where H + stands for the concentration of the aquated hydronium ion and OH - represents the concentration of the hydroxide ion .
The noun `` pastel '' gives rise to : Pastel sticks or crayons consist of pure powdered pigment combined with a binder .
The Pastel Society within the UK ( the oldest pastel society ) states the following are acceptable media for Pastel exhibitions : `` Pastels , including Oil pastel , Charcoal , Pencil , Conté , Sanguine , or any dry media '' .
Glassine ( paper ) is used by artists to protect artwork which is being stored or transported .
Artists such as Maurice Quentin de La Tour and Rosalba Carriera have been using Pastel to create masterpieces as far back as 1703 .
It seems , on the internet , that the term `` pen pals '' defines those looking for relationships , where pen pals originated via postal mail correspondences and has evolved to mean something more .
The 2004 action-drama film Out of Reach is about a pen pal relationship between a Vietnam veteran and a 13-year-old orphaned girl from Poland .
Philip Glass visited artists ' studios and saw their work ; `` the bohemian life you see in Cocteau 's Orphée was the life Philip Glass ... was attracted to , and those were the people Philip Glass hung out with '' .
Between summer of 1967 and the end of 1968 , Glass composed nine works , including Strung Out ( for amplified solo violin , composed in summer of 1967 ) , Gradus ( for solo saxophone , 1968 ) , Music in the Shape of a Square ( for two flutes , composed in May 1968 , an homage to Erik Satie ) , How Now ( for solo piano , 1968 ) and 1 +1 ( for amplified tabletop , November 1968 ) which were `` clearly designed to experiment more fully with Philip Glass new-found minimalist approach '' .
Glass 's music for Philip Glass ensemble culminated in the four-hour-long Music in Twelve Parts ( 1971 -- 1974 ) , which began as a single piece with twelve instrumental parts but developed into a cycle that summed up Glass 's musical achievement since 1967 , and even transcended it -- the last part features a twelve-tone theme , sung by the soprano voice of the ensemble .
`` Philip Glass had broken the rules of modernism and so Philip Glass thought it was time to break some of Philip Glass own rules '' , according to Glass .
Though Philip Glass finds the term minimalist inaccurate to describe Philip Glass later work , Glass does accept this term for pieces up to and including Music in 12 Parts , excepting this last part which `` was the end of minimalism '' for Glass .
The `` Portrait Trilogy '' was completed with Akhnaten ( 1982 -- 1983 , premiered in 1984 ) , a vocal and orchestral composition sung in Akkadian , Biblical Hebrew , and Ancient Egyptian .
Upon learning this , Glass and conductor Dennis Russell Davies visited the playhouse , placing music stands around the pit to determine how many players the pit could accommodate .
As Glass remarked in 1992 , Akhnaten is significant in Philip Glass work since it represents a `` first extension out of a triadic harmonic language '' , an experiment with the polytonality of Philip Glass teachers Persichetti and Milhaud , a musical technique which Glass compares to `` an optical illusion , such as in the paintings of Josef Albers '' .
This composition was initially regarded by the composer as a piece of Gebrauchsmusik ( ` music for use ' ) -- `` like salt and pepper just something for the table '' , as Philip Glass noted .
Especially in The Voyage , Philip Glass `` explored new territory '' , with its `` newly arching lyricism '' , `` Sibelian starkness and sweep '' , and `` dark , brooding tone a reflection of its increasingly chromatic ( and dissonant ) palette '' , as one commentator put it .
Glass responded with two 3-movement symphonies ( `` Low '' 1992 , and Symphony No. 2 1994 ) ; Philip Glass first in an ongoing series of symphonies is a combination of the composer 's own musical material with themes featured in prominent tracks of the David Bowie / Brian Eno album Low ( 1977 ) , whereas Symphony No. 2 is described by Glass as a study in polytonality .
In the same way the triptych is also a musical homage to the work of the group of French composers associated with Cocteau , Les Six ( and especially to Glass 's teacher Darius Milhaud ) , as well as to various 18th century composers such as Gluck and Bach whose music featured as an essential part of the films by Cocteau .
The inspiration of the first part of the trilogy , Orphée ( composed in 1991 , and premiered in 1993 at the American Repertory Theatre ) can be conceptually and musically traced to Gluck 's opera Orfeo ed Euridice ( Orphée et Euridyce , 1762/1774 ) , which had a prominent part in Cocteau 's 1949 film Orphee .
While the opera 's themes are Imperialism , apartheid , and torture , Philip Glass chose an understated approach by using `` very simple means , and the orchestration is very clear and very traditional ; it 's almost classical in sound '' , as the conductor D. Russell Davies notes .
The Passion of Ramakrishna ( 2006 ) , was composed for the Pacific Symphony Orchestra , the Pacific Chorale and the conductor Carl St. Clair .
The 45 minutes choral work is based on the writings of Indian Spiritual leader Sri Ramakrishna , which seem `` to have genuinely inspired and revived the composer out of Philip Glass old formulas to write something fresh '' , as one critic remarked , whereas another noted that `` The musical style breaks little new ground for Glass , except for the glorious Handelian ending the `` composer 's style ideally fits the devotional text '' .
Philip Glass provided a `` hypnotic '' original score for a compilation of Beckett 's short plays Act Without Words Philip Glass , Act Without Words II , Rough for Theatre I and Eh Joe , directed by JoAnne Akalaitis and premiered in December 2007 .
Pendulum ( 2010 , a one-movement piece for violin and piano ) , a second Suite of cello pieces for Wendy Sutter ( 2011 ) , and Partita for solo violin for violinist Tim Fain ( 2010 , first performance of the complete work 2011 ) , are recent entries in the series .
The Double Concerto for Violin and Cello and Orchestra ( 2010 ) was composed for soloists Maria Bachmann and Wendy Sutter and also as a ballet score for the Nederlands Dans Theater .
Philip Glass opera , based on a play by Austrian playwright and novelist Peter Handke , Die Spuren der Verirrten ( 2007 ) , premiered at the in April 2013 , conducted by Dennis Russell Davies and directed by David Pountney .
In 1970 , Glass and Klaus Kertess ( owner of the Bykert Gallery ) formed a record label named Chatham Square Productions ( named after the location of the studio of a Philip Glass Ensemble member Dick Landry ) .
In 2005 Philip Glass Concerto for Violin and Orchestra ( 1987 ) was featured in the surreal French thriller , La Moustache , providing a tone intentionally incongruous to the banality of the movie 's plot .
`` Pruit Igoe '' and `` Prophecies '' ( also from Koyaanisqatsi ) were used both in a trailer for Watchmen and in Philip Glass .
Juliet ( b. 1968 ) and Zachary ( b. 1971 ) are Philip Glass children from Philip Glass first marriage , to theater director JoAnne Akalaitis ( married 1965 , divorced 1980 ) .
Marlowe and Cameron are Glass 's sons with Philip Glass fourth wife , Holly Critchlow ( from whom Glass is divorced ) .
Not all organisms with the same genotype look or act the same way because appearance and behavior are modified by environmental and developmental conditions .
This genotype-phenotype distinction was proposed by Wilhelm Johannsen in 1911 to make clear the difference between an organism 's heredity and what that heredity produces .
The distinction is similar to that proposed by August Weismann , who distinguished between germ plasm ( heredity ) and somatic cells ( the body ) .
A notable extension to this idea is the presence of `` organic molecules '' or metabolites that are generated by organisms from chemical reactions of enzymes , eg vitamins , that can be scored as phenotype .
One habitat is rocky , sea-side cliffs , where the plants are bushy with broad leaves and expanded inflorescences ; the other is among sand dunes where the plants grow prostrate with narrow leaves and compact inflorescences .
Carbohydrates , such as sugars , are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water ( hence the name photosynthesis , from the Greek , phōs ( gen.
Although there are some differences between oxygenic photosynthesis in plants , algae , and cyanobacteria , Photosynthesis is quite similar in these organisms .
Most organisms that utilize photosynthesis to produce oxygen use visible light to do so , although at least three use shortwave infrared or , more specifically , far-red radiation .
The non-absorbed part of the light spectrum is what gives Photosynthesis organisms their color ( e.g. , green plants , red algae , purple bacteria ) and is the least effective for photosynthesis in the respective organisms .
The cyclic reaction is similar to that of the non-cyclic , but differs in the form that Photosynthesis generates only ATP , and no reduced NADP ( NADPH ) is created .
Once the electron is displaced from the photosystem , the electron is passed down the electron acceptor molecules and returns to photosystem I , from where Photosynthesis was emitted , hence the name cyclic reaction .
Two water molecules are oxidized by four successive charge-separation reactions by photosystem II to yield a molecule of diatomic oxygen and four hydrogen ions ; the electron yielded in each step is transferred to a redox-active tyrosine residue that then reduces the photoxidized paired-chlorophyll a '' species called P680 that serves as the primary ( light-driven ) electron donor in the photosystem II reaction center .
In the light-independent ( or `` dark '' ) reactions , the enzyme RuBisCO captures CO2 from the atmosphere and in a process that requires the newly formed NADPH , called the Calvin-Benson Cycle , releases three-carbon sugars , which are later combined to form sucrose and starch .
In addition , a few marine mollusks Elysia viridis and Elysia chlorotica also maintain a symbiotic relationship with chloroplasts they capture from the algae in their diet and then store in their bodies .
Cyanobacteria remain critical to marine ecosystems as primary producers in oceanic gyres , as agents of biological nitrogen fixation , and , in modified form , as the plastids of marine algae .
Joseph Priestley , a chemist and minister , discovered that , when he isolated a volume of air under an inverted jar , and burned a candle in Photosynthesis , the candle would burn out very quickly , much before Photosynthesis ran out of wax .
In 1796 , Jean Senebier , a Swiss pastor , botanist , and naturalist , demonstrated that green plants consume carbon dioxide and release oxygen under the influence of light .
By studying purple sulfur bacteria and green bacteria he was the first scientist to demonstrate that photosynthesis is a light-dependent redox reaction , in which hydrogen reduces carbon dioxide .
Photosynthesis is most productive when absorption of quanta are equal in both the PSII and PSI , assuring that input energy from the antenna complex is divided between the PSI and PSII system , which in turn powers the photochemistry .
Samuel Ruben and Martin Kamen used radioactive isotopes to determine that the oxygen liberated in photosynthesis came from the water .
Duysens and Jan Amesz discovered that chlorophyll a will absorb one light , oxidize cytochrome f , chlorophyll a ( and other pigments ) will absorb another light , but will reduce this same oxidized cytochrome , stating the two light reactions are in series .
There are three main factors affecting photosynthesis and several corollary factors .
RuBisCO , the enzyme that captures carbon dioxide in the light-independent reactions , has a binding affinity for both carbon dioxide and oxygen .
Hosts specify how many days and how many guests can stay along with a short comment with other restrictions or interests ( no smokers , bring a tent , young people especially welcome , etc. ) .
Although the concept of offering hospitality to the traveler dates back to early cultures ( notably ancient Greece : xenia and Viking Age Scandinavia ) , the idea of applying Pasporta Servo specifically to Esperanto speakers began in 1966 in Argentina when Ruben Feldman-Gonzalez started the Programo Pasporto .
The official web site currently ( April 2004 ) states : `` While providing a service to Esperanto-speaking hosts and guests , at the same time Pasporta Servo demonstrates , easily and clearly , to the outside public that Esperanto is useful and that Pasporta Servo works in practice .
During the Paris Commune in 1871 , while Renoir painted on the banks of the Seine River , some Communards thought Pierre-Auguste Renoir was a spy , and were about to throw Pierre-Auguste Renoir into the river when a leader of the Commune , Raoul Rigault , recognized Renoir as the man who had protected Pierre-Auguste Renoir on an earlier occasion .
While living and working in Montmartre , Renoir employed as a model Suzanne Valadon , who posed for him ( The Bathers , 1885 -- 87 ; , 1883 ) and many of Pierre-Auguste Renoir fellow painters while studying their techniques ; eventually she became one of the leading painters of the day .
In 1887 , the year when Queen Victoria celebrated her Golden Jubilee , and upon the request of the queen 's associate , Phillip Richbourg , Renoir donated several paintings to the `` French Impressionist Paintings '' catalog as a token of Pierre-Auguste Renoir loyalty .
The Renoirs had three sons , one of whom , Jean , became a filmmaker of note and another , Pierre , became a stage and film actor .
Renoir also used a moving canvas , or picture roll , to facilitate painting large works with Pierre-Auguste Renoir limited joint mobility .
Renoir 's portrait of Austrian actress Tilla Durieux ( 1914 ) contains playful flecks of vibrant color on her shawl that offset the classical pose of the actress and highlight Renoir 's skill just 5 years before Pierre-Auguste Renoir death .
Several pairs of paintings exist in which Pierre-Auguste Renoir and Monet , working side-by-side , depicted the same scenes ( La Grenouillère , 1869 ) .
By the mid-1880s , however , Pierre-Auguste Renoir had broken with the movement to apply a more disciplined , formal technique to portraits and figure paintings , particularly of women , such as The Bathers , which was created during 1884 -- 87 .
It was a trip to Italy in 1881 , when Pierre-Auguste Renoir saw works by Raphael and other Renaissance masters , that convinced Pierre-Auguste Renoir that Pierre-Auguste Renoir was on the wrong path , and for the next several years Pierre-Auguste Renoir painted in a more severe style , in an attempt to return to classicism .
This is sometimes called Pierre-Auguste Renoir `` Ingres period '' , as Pierre-Auguste Renoir concentrated on Pierre-Auguste Renoir drawing and emphasized the outlines of figures .
In 1919 , Ambroise Vollard , a renowned art dealer , published a book on the life and work of Pierre-Auguste Renoir , La Vie et l'Œuvre de Pierre-Auguste Renoir , in an edition of 1000 copies .
A poll tax ( Tax per head or Tax per head , per U.S. English usage ) is a tax of a portioned , fixed amount applied to an individual in accordance with the census ( as opposed to a percentage of income ) .
For instance , Amr ibn al-As , after conquering Egypt , set up a census to measure the population for the jizya , and thus the total expected jizya revenue for the whole province , but organized the actual collection by partitioning the population into wealth classes , so that the rich paid more and the poor less jizya of that total sum .
Tax per head was imposed on Scotland between 1694 and 1699 .
James Boswell , who reported this comment in his Life of Johnson , does not provide context for the quote , and Patriotism has therefore been argued that Johnson was in fact attacking the false use of the term `` patriotism '' by contemporaries such as John Stuart , 3rd Earl of Bute ( the patriot-minister ) and his supporters ; Johnson spoke elsewhere in favour of what he considered `` true '' patriotism .
This is the opposite of the separation of church and state demanded by the Enlightenment thinkers who saw patriotism and faith as similar forces .
Several surveys have tried to measure patriotism for various reasons , such as the Correlates of War project which found some correlation between war propensity and patriotism .
For example , patriotism in Germany before the Great War ( WWI ) ranked at or near the top , whereas today Patriotism ranks at or near the bottom of patriotism surveys .
The Patriotism Score tables here are from the World Values Survey and refer to the average answer for high income residents of Patriotism to the question : `` Are you proud to be insert nationality ?
Translation , the assembly of proteins by ribosomes , is an essential part of the biosynthetic pathway , along with generation of messenger RNA ( mRNA ) , aminoacylation of transfer RNA ( tRNA ) , co-translational transport , and post-translational modification .
A proprotein is an inactive protein containing one or more inhibitory peptides that can be activated when the inhibitory sequence is removed by proteolysis during posttranslational modification .
A preprotein is a form that contains a signal sequence ( an N-terminal signal peptide ) that specifies Protein biosynthesis insertion into or through membranes , i.e. , targets them for secretion .
Protein biosynthesis , although very similar , is different for prokaryotes and eukaryotes .
Chlorophyll a absorbs well at a wavelength of about 400-450 nm and at 650-700 nm ; chlorophyll b at 450-500 nm and at 600-650 nm .
Peter J. Carroll ( born 8 January 1953 , in Patching , England ) is a modern occultist , author , cofounder of the Illuminates of Thanateros , and practitioner of chaos magic theory .
Intact dilation and extraction ( IDX ) is an extraction procedure used for a fetus where dilation is done so it can be removed intact .
The fetus is turned to a breech position , if necessary , and the doctor pulls one or both legs out of the cervix , which some refer to as ` partial birth ' of the fetus .
Critics consider Intact dilation and extraction to be infanticide , a position which many in the pro-life movement extend to cover all abortions .
According to a BBC report about the U.S. Supreme Court 's decision in Gonzales v. Carhart , `` government lawyers and others who favour the ban , have said there are alternative and more widely used procedures that are still legal - which involves dismembering the fetus in the uterus '' .
An article in Harper 's magazine stated that , `` Defending the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban ... requires arguing to judges that pulling a fetus from a woman 's body in dismembered pieces is legal , medically acceptable , and safe ; but that pulling a fetus out intact , so that if the woman wishes the fetus can be wrapped in a blanket and handed to her , is appropriately punishable by a fine , or up to two years ' imprisonment , or both '' .
Although prominent defenders of the method asserted during 1995 and 1996 that Intact dilation and extraction was used only or mostly in acute medical circumstances , lobbyist Ron Fitzsimmons , executive director of the National Coalition of Abortion Providers ( a trade association of abortion providers ) , told the New York Times ( February 26 , 1997 ) : `` In the vast majority of cases , the procedure is performed on a healthy mother with a healthy fetus that is 20 weeks or more along '' .
The 1973 Supreme Court decision Roe v. Wade , which declared many state-level abortion restrictions unconstitutional , allowed states to ban abortions of post-viable fetuses unless an abortion was `` necessary to preserve the life or health of the mother '' .
Many states have bans on late-term abortions which apply to the IDX procedure if Intact dilation and extraction is performed after viability .
Since the Stenberg v. Carhart decision , Virginia , Michigan , and Utah have adopted legislation very similar to the Nebraska law overturned as unconstitutional .
The definition of birth as defined in the bill was that once any part of the body had passed beyond the vaginal plane of introitus Intact dilation and extraction is considered a birth .
Plutocracy , also known as plutonomy or plutarchy , is rule by the wealthy .
The concept of plutocracy may be advocated by the wealthy classes of a society in an indirect or surreptitious fashion , though the term Plutocracy is almost always used in a pejorative sense .
A core basis of democracy , being a politician 's ability to freely advocate policies which benefit his or her constituents , also makes Plutocracy difficult to prove that doing so might be a crime .
The UK , for example , uses a variety of means to reward individuals that hold the same values or interests .
In the United States , currently , 250 members of Congress both Democratic and Republican are millionaires , with 57 belonging to the top 1 % of American wealthy In the political jargon and propaganda of Fascist Italy , Nazi Germany and the Communist International , western democratic states were referred to as plutocracies , with the implication being that a small number of extremely wealthy individuals were controlling the countries and holding them in ransom .
Pareto principle ( also known as the 80 -- 20 rule , the law of the vital few , and the principle of factor sparsity ) states that , for many events , roughly 80 % of the effects come from 20 % of the causes .
Business-management consultant Joseph M. Juran suggested the principle and named Pareto principle after Italian economist Vilfredo Pareto , who observed in 1906 that 80 % of the land in Italy was owned by 20 % of the population ; he developed the principle by observing that 20 % of the pea pods in his garden contained 80 % of the peas .
A chart that gave the inequality a very visible and comprehensible form , the so-called ` champagne glass ' effect , was contained in the 1992 United Nations Development Program Report , which showed the distribution of global income to be very uneven , with the richest 20 % of the world 's population controlling 82.7 % of the world 's income .
In the financial services industry , this concept is known as profit risk , where 20 % or fewer of a company 's customers are generating positive income , while 80 % or more are costing the company money .
An important goal may be to assign the text a date and a place of origin : this is why the palaeographer must take into account the style and formation of the manuscript and the handwriting used in Palaeography .
The Aramaic language was the international trade language of the Ancient Middle East , originating in what is modern-day Syria , between 1000 and 600 BC .
The Aramaic alphabet , a modified form of Phoenician , was the ancestor of the modern Arabic and Hebrew scripts , as well as the Brāhmī script , the parent writing system of most modern abugidas in India , Southeast Asia , Tibet , and Mongolia .
This is the script ( with some variants ) that would have been employed around the times the Bible describes Moses and Abraham .
The oldest witnesses to Palaeography are inscriptions from northern Syria of the 10th to 8th centuries BC , especially extensive state treaties ( c. 750 BC ) and royal inscriptions .
If one rules out the inscriptions on stone or metal , which belong to the science of , we are practically dependent for the period preceding the 4th or 5th century AD on the papyri from Egypt ( cf. ) , the earliest of which take back our knowledge only to the end of the 4th century BC .
Whatever may have been the period at which the use of papyrus or leather as a writing material began in Greece inherited from epigraphic style to rounded ones ( `` uncials '' ) .
The earliest Greek papyrus yet discovered is probably that containing the Persae of Timotheus , which dates from the second half of the 4th century BC and Palaeography script has a curiously archaic appearance .
There are none from chancelleries of the Hellenistic monarchs , but some letters , notably those of Apollonius , the finance minister of Ptolemy II , to this agent , Zeno , and those of the Palestianian sheikh , Toubias , are in a type of script which can not be very unlike the Chancery hand of the time , and show the Ptolemaic cursive at its best .
H , with the cross-stroke high , Π , Μ , with the middle stroke reduced to a very shallow curve , sometimes approaching a horizontal line , Υ , and Τ , with Palaeography cross-bar extending much further to the left than to the right of the up-stroke , Γ and Ν , whose last stroke is prolonged upwards above the line , often curving backwards , are all broad ; ε , c , θ and β , which sometimes takes the form of two almost perpendicular strokes joined only at the top , are usually small ; ω is rather flat , Palaeography second loop reduced to a practically straight line .
The less cursive often show am approximation to the book-hand , the letters growing rounder and less angular than in the 3rd century ; in the more cursive linking was carried further , both by the insertion of coupling strokes and by the writing of several letters continuously without raising the pen , so that before the end of the century an almost current hand was evolved .
A fortunate accident has preserved two Greek parchments written in Parthia , one dated 88 BC , in a practically unligatured hand , the other , 22/21 BC , in a very cursive script of Ptolemaic type ; and though each has non-Egyptian features the general character indicates a uniformity of style in the Hellenistic world .
Qualities which are specially noticeable are roundness in the shape of letters , continuity of formation , the pen being carried on from character to character , and regularity , the letters not differing strikingly in size and projecting strokes above or below the line being avoided .
Sometimes , especially in tax-receipts and in stereotyped formulae , cursiveness is carried to an extreme .
Another type , well called by palaeographer Schubart the `` severe '' style , has a more angular appearance and not infrequently slopes to the right ; though handsome , Palaeography has not the sumptuous appearance of the former .
In the 3rd century the book-hand , like the cursive , appears to have deteriorated in regularity and stylistic accomplishment .
This is often upright , though a slope to the right is quite common , and sometimes , especially in one or two documents of the early Arab period , Palaeography has an almost calligraphic effect .
Palaeography went back to at least the end of the 2nd century and had had originally no special connection with Christian literature .
The thick strokes grew heavier ; the cross strokes of T and Θ and the base of Δ were furnished with drooping spurs .
A different type of uncials , derived from the Chancery hand and seen in two papyrus examples of the Festal letters despatched annually by the Patriarch of Alexandria , was occasionally used , the best known example being the Codex Marchalianus ( 6th or 7th century ) .
A first attempt at a calligraphic use of this hand , seen in one or two manuscripts of the 8th or early 9th century , in which it slopes to the right and has a narrow , angular appearance , did not find favour , but by the end of the 9th century a more ornamental type , from which modern Greek script descended , was already established .
In the 15th century , especially in the West , where Greek scribes were in request to produce manuscripts of the classical authors , there was a revival , and several manuscripts of this period , though markedly inferior to those of the 11th and 12th centuries , are by no means without beauty .
The coronis , a more elaborate form of this , marked the beginning of lyrics or the principal sections of a longer work .
Punctuation marks , the comma , the high , low and middle points , were established in the book-hand by the Roman period ; in early Ptolemaic papyri , a double point is found .
The discipline of ancient Indian scripts and the languages Palaeography are written needs new scholars who , by adopting traditional palaeographic methods and modern technology , may decipher , study and transcribe the various types of epigraphs and legends still extant today .
Moreover , all the edicts of Ashoka engraved in the Kharoshthi and Brahmi scripts are in the Prakrit language : thus , originally the language employed in the inscriptions was Prakrit , with Sanskrit adopted at a later stage .
Some of the inscriptions though written in Prakrit , were influenced by Sanskrit and vice versa .
The epigraphs of the Kushana kings are found in a mixture of Prakrit and Sanskrit , while the Mathura inscriptions of the time of Sodasa , belonging to the first quarter of the 1st century , contain verses in classical Sanskrit .
Further development of the Brahmi script and perceivable changes in Palaeography evolutionary trend can be discerned during the Gupta period : in fact , the Gupta script is considered to be the successor of the Kushana script in north India .
The earliest attested form of writing in South India is represented by inscriptions found in caves , associated with the Chalukya and Chera dynasties .
The difference in this case is determined by the subject matter of the text ; the writing used for books ( scriptura libraria ) is in all periods quite distinct from that used for letters and documents ( epistolaris , diplomatica ) .
Jean Mabillon , a French Benedictine monk , scholar and antiquary , whose work De re diplomatica was published in 1681 , is widely regarded as the founder of the twin disciplines of palaeography and diplomatics .
With their establishment of paleography , Mabillon and his fellow Benedictines were responding to the Jesuit Daniel Papebroch , who doubted the authenticity of some of the documents which the Benedictines offered as credentials for the authorisation of their monasteries .
In the 20th century , the ` New French School ' of paleographers , especially Jean Mallon , gave a new direction to the study of scripts by stressing the importance of ductus ( the shape and order of the strokes used to compose letters ) in studying the historical development of scripts .
Side by side with upright and square characters are angular and sloping forms , sometimes very distorted , which seem to indicate the existence of an early cursive writing from which they would have been borrowed .
Reproduced by scribes on papyrus or parchment , the elegant characters of the inscriptions become the square capitals of the manuscripts , and the actuaria , as the writing of the acta is called , becomes the rustic capital .
The finest examples of rustic capitals , the use of which is attested by papyri of the 1st century , are to be found in manuscripts of Virgil and Terence .
While the set book-hand , in square or rustic capitals , was used for the copying of books , the writing of everyday life , letters and documents of all kinds , was in a cursive form , the oldest exampless of which are provided by the graffiti on walls at Pompeii or downwards ( = q ; = s '' ' ) .
At this period , the minuscule cursive made Palaeography appearance as a book hand , first as marginal notes , and later for the complete books themselves .
The fall of the Empire and the establishment of the barbarians within Palaeography former boundaries did not interrupt the use of the Roman minuscule cursive hand , which was adopted by the newcomers .
In Italy , after the close of the roman and Byzantine periods , Palaeography is known as Lombardic , a generic term which comprises several local varieties .
These may be classified under four principal types : two for the scriptura epistolaris , the old Italian cursive and the papal chancery hand , or littera romana , and two for the libraria , the old Italian book-hand and Lombardic in the narrow sense , sometimes known as Beneventana on account of the fact that it flourished in the principality of Benevento .
The papal chancery hand , a variety of Lombardic peculiar to the vicinity of Rome and principally used in papal documents , is distinguished by the formation of the letters a , e , q , t .
The facile flow of the former is replaced by a cramped style , in which the natural slope to the right gives way to an upright hand , and the letters , instead of being fully outlined , are compressed to such an extent that Palaeography modify the shape of other letters .
Palaeography soon came into competition with the Carolingian minuscule , which supplanted Palaeography as a result of the presence in Spain of French elements such as Cluniac monks and warriors engaged in the campaign against the Moors .
As the minuscule letters made Palaeography appearance in the cursive writing of documents , Palaeography were adopted and given calligraphic form by the copyists of literary texts , so that the set minuscule alphabet was constituted gradually , letter by letter , following the development of the minuscule cursive .
The number of minuscule forms increases steadily in texts written in the mixed hand , and especially in marginal notes , until by the end of the 5th century the majuscule forms have almost entirely disappeared in some manuscripts .
The most certain evidence , however , is provided by the system of abbreviations and by the combined square and cuneiform appearance of the minuscule at the height of Palaeography development .
The topography of later medieval writing is still being studied ; national varieties can , of course , be identified but the problem of distinguishing features becomes complicated as a result of the development of international relations , and the migration of clerks from one end of Europe to the other .
Pollutant Release and Transfer Registers ( PRTR ) are systems to collect and disseminate information on environmental releases and transfers of toxic chemicals from industrial and other facilities ... The European Pollutant Emission Register is a type of PRTR providing access to information on the annual emissions of industrial facilities in the Member States of the European Union , as well as Norway .
The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) regulates the management , transport and disposal of municipal solid waste , hazardous waste and underground storage tanks .
Apoptosis ( or ) is the process of programmed cell death ( PCD ) that may occur in multicellular organisms .
For an average child between the ages of 8 and 14 , approximately 20 billion to 30 billion cells die a day .
To show the derivation clearly , we propose that the stress should be on the penultimate syllable , the second half of the word being pronounced like `` ptosis '' ( with the `` p '' silent ) , which comes from the same root `` to fall '' , and is already used to describe the drooping of the upper eyelid '' .
( Binding and subsequent trigger of apoptosis by a molecule is termed positive induction , whereas the active repression or inhibition of apoptosis by a molecule is termed negative induction .
Binding of this receptor can also indirectly lead to the activation of transcription factors involved in cell survival and inflammatory responses .
The link between TNF and apoptosis shows why an abnormal production of TNF plays a fundamental role in several human diseases , especially in autoimmune diseases .
The Fas receptor ( also known as Apo-1 or CD95 ) binds the Fas ligand ( FasL ) , a transmembrane protein part of the TNF family .
A BAX-1 knock-out mouse exhibits normal forebrain formation and a decreased programmed cell death in some neuronal populations and in the spinal cord , leading to an increase in motor neurons .
This results in a cell that lives past its `` use-by-date '' and is able to replicate and pass on any faulty machinery to Apoptosis progeny , increasing the likelihood of the cell becoming cancerous or diseased .
Finally , adding p53-MDM2 complexes displaces p53 and activates the p53 pathway , leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
The progression from HIV to AIDS is not immediate or even necessarily rapid ; HIV 's cytotoxic activity towards CD4 + lymphocytes is classified as AIDS once a given patient 's CD4 + cell count falls below 200 .
Viral induction of apoptosis occurs when one or several cells of a living organism is infected with a virus leading to cell death .
Canine distemper virus ( CDV ) is known to cause apoptosis in central nervous system and lymphoid tissue of infected dogs in vivo and in vitro .
Apoptosis can be exported in the apoptotic bodies that pinch off from the surface of the dying cell and the fact that Apoptosis are engulfed by phagocytes prevents the initiation of a host response .
Pepsi ( formerly stylized in uppercase as Pepsi ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo .
Since he had initially used Loft 's finances and facilities to establish the new Pepsi success , the near-bankrupt Loft Company sued Guth for possession of the Pepsi company .
From the 1930s through the late 1950s , `` Pepsi Hits The Spot '' was the most commonly used slogan in the days of old radio , classic motion pictures , and later television .
The Buffalo Bisons , an American Hockey League team , were sponsored by Pepsi-Cola in Pepsi later years ; the team adopted the beverage 's red , white and blue color scheme along with a modification of the Pepsi logo ( with the word `` Buffalo '' in place of the Pepsi-Cola wordmark ) .
( See Slogans ) In 1975 , Pepsi introduced the Pepsi Challenge marketing campaign where PepsiCo set up a blind tasting between Pepsi and rival Coca-Cola .
In 2007 , PepsiCo redesigned Pepsi cans for the fourteenth time , and for the first time , included more than thirty different backgrounds on each can , introducing a new background every three weeks .
The redesign was comparable to Coca-Cola 's earlier simplification of and bottle designs .
Starting in mid-2010 , all Pepsi variants , regular , diet , and Pepsi Max , have started using only the medium-sized `` smile '' Pepsi Globe .
In 2011 , for New York Fashion Week , Diet Pepsi introduced a `` skinny '' can that is taller and has been described as a `` sassier '' version of the traditional can that Pepsi says was made in `` celebration of beautiful , confident women '' .
The company 's equating of `` skinny '' and `` beautiful '' and `` confident '' is drawing criticism from brand critics , consumers who do not back the `` skinny is better '' ethos , and the National Eating Disorders Association , which said that it takes offense to the can and the company 's `` thoughtless and irresponsible '' comments .
In May 2011 , the week before Memorial Day , Pepsi launched a limited edition flavor called `` Memorial Day Pepsi '' , with blueberry and cherry flavors added to the cola .
After delivering the beverage , sometimes Pepsiman would encounter a difficult and action oriented situation which would result in injury .
A can of Pepsi ( 12 fl ounces ) has 41 grams of carbohydrates ( all from sugar ) , 30 mg of sodium , 0 grams of fat , 0 grams of protein , 38 mg of caffeine and 150 calories .
Under the contract , PepsiCo is paying $ 30 million to Senomyx for the research and future royalties on PepsiCo products sold using Senomyx technology .
At the age of sixteen , however , Paul Johann Anselm Ritter von Feuerbach ran away from home , and , going to Jena , was helped by relations there to study at the university .
As the fruit of this visit , Paul Johann Anselm Ritter von Feuerbach published Paul Johann Anselm Ritter von Feuerbach treatises Betrachtungen über Öffentlichkeit und Mündigkeit der Gerechtigkeitspflege ( 1821 ) and Über die Gerichtsverfassung und das gerichtliche Verfahren Frankreichs ( 1825 ) .
Public house , formally public house ( a house `` open to the public '' , as opposed to a private house ) , is a drinking establishment fundamental to the culture of Britain , Ireland , Australia , Canada and New Zealand .
In the 1970s the newly built supermarkets and high street chain stores or off-licences undercut the pub prices to such a degree that within ten years all but a handful of Public house had closed their off-sale counters .
The inhabitants of Great Britain have been drinking ale since the Bronze Age , but Public house was with the arrival of the Romans and the establishment of the Roman road network that the first inns called tabernae , in which the traveller could obtain refreshment , began to appear .
After the departure of Roman authority and the fall of the Romano-British kingdoms , the Anglo-Saxons established alehouses that grew out of domestic dwellings .
The Hostellers of London were granted guild status in 1446 and in 1514 the guild became the Worshipful Company of Innholders .
In North America , the lodging aspect of the word `` inn '' lives on in hotel brand names like Holiday Inn , and in some state laws that refer to lodging operators as innkeepers .
By 1740 the production of gin had increased to six times that of beer and because of Public house cheapness it became popular with the poor , leading to the so-called Gin Craze .
By the early 19th century , encouraged by lower duties on gin , the gin houses or `` Gin Palaces '' had spread from London to most cities and towns in Britain , with most of the new establishments illegal and unlicensed .
The freely available beer was thus intended to wean the drinkers off the evils of gin , or so the thinking went .
Although the new licensing laws prevented new beer houses from being created , those already in existence were allowed to continue and many did not close until nearly the end of the 19th century .
The restrictions were tightened by the Defence of the Realm Act of August 1914 , which , along with the introduction of rationing and the censorship of the press for wartime purposes , restricted pubs ' opening hours to 12 noon -- 2:30 pm and 6:30 pm -- 9:30 pm .
During the 20th century elsewhere , both the licensing laws and enforcement were progressively relaxed , and there were differences between parishes ; in the 1960s , at closing time in Kensington at 10:30 pm , drinkers would rush over the parish boundary to be in good time for `` Last Orders '' in Knightsbridge before 11 pm , a practice observed in many pubs adjoining licensing area boundaries .
In addition , many cities had by-laws to allow some pubs to extend opening hours to midnight or 1 am , whilst nightclubs had long been granted late licences to serve alcohol into the morning .
Public house near London 's Smithfield market , Billingsgate fish market and Covent Garden fruit and flower market could stay open 24 hours a day since Victorian times to provide a service to the shift working employees of the markets .
This allowed Public house in England and Wales to apply to the local authority for the opening hours of their choice .
The Wetherspoons pub chain reported in June 2009 that profits were at the top end of expectations ; however , Scottish & Newcastle 's takeover by Carlsberg and Heineken was reported in January 2008 as partly the result of its weakness following falling sales due to the ban .
The origin of the lock-in in Britain was a reaction to changes in the licensing laws in England and Wales in 1915 , which curtailed opening hours to stop factory workers from turning up drunk and harming the war effort .
A most famous London saloon was the Grecian Saloon in The Eagle , City Road , which is still famous because of a nursery rhyme : `` Up and down the City Road / In and out The Eagle / That 's the way the money goes / Pop goes the weasel '' .
By the 20th century , the saloon , or lounge bar , had become a middle-class room -- carpets on the floor , cushions on the seats , and a penny or two on the prices , while the public bar , or tap room , remained working class with bare boards , sometimes with sawdust to absorb the spitting and spillages , hard bench seats , and cheap beer .
By the early 1970s there was a tendency to change to one large drinking room and breweries were eager to invest in interior design and theming .
Isambard Kingdom Brunel , the British engineer and railway builder , introduced the idea of a circular bar into the Swindon station pub in order that customers were served quickly and did not delay his trains .
A `` beer engine '' is a device for pumping beer , originally manually operated and typically used to dispense beer from a cask or container in Public house basement or cellar .
`` Public house Majesties '' referred to were William and Mary , who had recently arrived from the Netherlands and had been appointed joint monarchs .
Strictly the term refers to the pump Public house , which is normally manually operated , though electrically powered and gas powered pumps are occasionally used .
When manually powered , the term `` handpump '' is often used to refer to both the pump and the associated handle .
Most such breweries , such as the regional brewery Shepherd Neame in Kent and Young 's and Fuller 's in London , control hundreds of pubs in a particular region of the UK , while a few , such as Greene King , are spread nationally .
The landlord of a tied pub may be an employee of the brewery -- in which case he/she would be a manager of a managed house , or a self-employed tenant who has entered into a lease agreement with a brewery , a condition of which is the legal obligation ( trade tie ) only to purchase that brewery 's beer .
The low returns of a pub-owning business led to many breweries selling their pub estates , especially those in cities , often to a new generation of small companies , many of which have now grown considerably and have a national presence .
Organisations such as Wetherspoons , Punch Taverns and O'Neill 's were formed in the UK since changes in legislation in the 1980s necessitated the break-up of many larger tied estates .
In the past , many rural pubs provided opportunities for country folk to meet and exchange ( often local ) news , while others -- especially those away from village centres -- existed for the general purpose , before the advent of motor transport , of serving travellers as coaching inns .
Public house that cater for a niche clientele , such as sports fans or people of certain nationalities are known as Public house .
Simple natural or religious symbols such as ` The Sun ' , ` The Star ' and ` The Cross ' were also incorporated into pub signs , sometimes being adapted to incorporate elements of the heraldry ( e.g. the coat of arms ) of the local lords who owned the lands upon which Public house stood .
In recent decades the game of pool ( both the British and American versions ) has increased in popularity as well as other table based games such as snooker or Table Football also becoming common .
During the 1970s pubs provided an outlet for a number of bands , such as Kilburn and the High Roads , Dr. Feelgood and The Kursaal Flyers , who formed a musical genre called Public house rock that was a precursor to Punk music .
Otherwise , pickled cockles and mussels may be offered by the pub in jars or packets In the 1950s some British pubs would offer `` a pie and a pint '' , with hot individual steak and ale pies made easily on the premises by the landlord 's wife .
The concept of a restaurant in Public house reinvigorated both Public house and British dining , though has occasionally attracted criticism for potentially removing the character of traditional pubs .
Several establishments in Soho , London , have associations with well-known , post-war literary and artistic figures , including the Pillars of Hercules , The Colony Room and the Coach and Horses .
It is said that Vladimir Lenin and a young Joseph Stalin met in the Crown and Anchor pub ( now known as The Crown Tavern ) on Clerkenwell Green when the latter was visiting London in 1903 .
The Eagle and Child and the Lamb and Flag , Oxford , were regular meeting places of the Inklings , a writers ' group which included J. R. R. Tolkien and C. S. Lewis .
The Queen Vic ( short for the Queen Victoria ) is the pub in EastEnders , the major soap on BBC One , while The Bull in the Radio 4 soap opera The Archers and the Woolpack in ITV 's Emmerdale are also important meeting points .
This newly established Danish interest in British cask beer and the British pub tradition is reflected by the fact that some 56 British cask beers were available at the 2008 European Beer Festival in Copenhagen , which was attended by more than 20,000 people .
Live music , either sessions of traditional Irish music or varieties of modern popular music , is frequently featured in the pubs of Ireland .
A side effect of `` The Troubles '' was that the lack of a tourist industry meant that a higher proportion of traditional bars have survived the wholesale refitting of Irish pub interiors in the ` English style ' in the 1950s and 1960s .
Pelvic inflammatory disease ( or disorder ) ( PID ) is a term for inflammation of the uterus , fallopian tubes , and/or ovaries as Pelvic inflammatory disease progresses to scar formation with adhesions to nearby tissues and organs .
Although a sexually transmitted infection ( STI ) is often the cause , many other routes are possible , including lymphatic , postpartum , postabortal ( either miscarriage or abortion ) or intrauterine device ( IUD ) related , and hematogenous spread .
Appendicitis , ectopic pregnancy , septic abortion , hemorrhagic or ruptured ovarian cysts or tumors , twisted ovarian cyst , degeneration of a myoma , and acute enteritis must be considered .
Pelvic inflammatory disease is more likely to occur when there is a history of pelvic inflammatory disease , recent sexual contact , recent onset of menses , or an IUD in place or if the partner has a sexually transmitted infection .
Traditionally tuboplastic surgery was the main approach to correct tubal obstruction or adhesion formation , however success rates tended to be very limited .
William Shatner , who portrayed James T. Kirk in the original Physics and Star Trek series , also cowrote a book I 'm Working on That in which he investigated how Physics and Star Trek technology was becoming feasible .
There are three practical challenges surrounding Impulse drive design : acceleration , time dilation and energy conservation .
Punk subculture , which centres around punk rock music , includes a diverse array of ideologies , fashions and forms of expression , including visual art , dance , literature and film .
A new movement in the United States became visible in the early and mid-1990s that sought to revive Punk subculture , doing away with some of the trappings of hardcore .
The first distinct music scene to claim the punk label appeared in New York City between 1974 and 1976 .
The Velvet Underground 's harsh and experimental , yet often melodic , sound in the mid to late 1960s , much of Punk subculture relating to transgressive media work by pop artist Andy Warhol , is credited for influencing 1970s bands such as the New York Dolls , The Stooges and the Ramones .
Early punk fashion adapted everyday objects for aesthetic effect : ripped clothing was held together by safety pins or wrapped with tape ; ordinary clothing was customised by embellishing Punk subculture with marker or adorning it with paint ; a black bin liner became a dress , shirt or skirt ; safety pins and razor blades were used as jewellery .
This is most common in the post-1980s US hardcore punk scene , where members of Punk subculture often dressed in plain t-shirts and jeans , rather than the more elaborate outfits and spiked , dyed hair of their British counterparts .
The use of images of suffering to shock and create feelings of empathy in the viewer is common .
Penelope Spheeris ' first installment of the documentary trilogy `` The Decline of Western Civilization '' ( 1981 ) focuses on the early Los Angeles punk scene through interviews and early concert footage from bands including Black Flag , Circle Jerks , Germs and Fear .
Illegal squats in abandoned or condemned housing and communal `` punk houses '' sometimes provide bands a place to stay while Punk subculture are touring .
In Punk subculture , the epithet poseur ( or `` poser '' ) is used to describe `` a person who habitually pretends to be something he or she is not '' .
While this perceived inauthenticity is viewed with scorn and contempt by members of the subculture , the definition of the term and to whom Punk subculture should be applied is subjective .
An article in Drowned in Sound argues that 1980s-era `` hardcore is the true spirit of punk '' , because `` after all the poseurs and fashionistas fucked off to the next trend of skinny pink ties with New Romantic haircuts , singing wimpy lyrics '' , Punk subculture consisted only of people `` completely dedicated to the DIY ethics '' .
Conversely , ska and reggae , popular among traditionalist skinheads , has influenced several punk musicians .
Nevertheless Penny Rimbaud of the English anarcho-punk band Crass said in interviews , and in an essay called The Last Of The Hippies , that Crass was formed in memory of his friend , Wally Hope .
Like Crass , Jello Biafra was influenced by the hippie movement and cited the yippies as a key influence on his political activism and thinking , though he did write songs critical of hippies .
In Mexico , Punk subculture is primarily a phenomenon among middle and upper class youth , many of whom were first exposed to punk music through travel to England .
Punk subculture usually take place in the afternoon and end early to accommodate the three or four hours Punk subculture takes many punks to return home by public transit .
In post-apartheid South Africa , punk has attracted a greater number of white middle-class males.It 's my home Punk subculture 's where I 'll stay and where I belong I did n't choose to be here I was born I might seem out of place but everything I hold dear is under the African sun .
Both bands , however , were important to the pre-punk context of the 1970s that offered few alternatives to the MPB and Progressive Rock artists that dominated the Brazilian music scene at the time .
Polyamory ( from Greek , meaning `` many '' or `` several '' , and Latin , `` love '' ) is the practice , desire , or acceptance of having more than one intimate relationship at a time with the knowledge and consent of everyone involved .
Polyamory , often abbreviated as poly , is often described as `` consensual , ethical , and responsible non-monogamy '' .
The article entitled `` A Bouquet of Lovers , '' written by Morning Glory Zell-Ravenheart and first published in Green Egg Magazine ( Spring 1990 ) , a publication founded by her husband Oberon Zell-Ravenheart , is widely cited as the original source of the word , although Polyamory does not appear in the article .
Most definitions center on the concepts of being open to , or engaging in , multiple loving relationships and whether Polyamory represents a viewpoint or a relational status quo ( is a person who is open to the idea , but without partners at present , still `` polyamorous ?
In 1999 , Zell-Ravenheart was asked by the editor of the Oxford English Dictionary to provide a definition of the term ( which the dictionary had not yet recognized ; the words Polyamory , - ous , and - ist '' were added to the OED in 2006 ) .
Thus , a woman with a husband and an additional partner might refer to her husband as her `` primary , '' and a lover whom she only sees once a week as her `` secondary , '' in order to differentiate to the listener who is who .
The symbol of ILIC , as the first letter of `` polyamory '' , represents the value that people who are Polyamory place on the emotional attachment to others , be the relationship friendly or romantic in nature , as opposed to merely primarily physical relationships .
`` Polygamy '' is more often used to refer to codified forms of multiple marriage ( especially those with a traditional/religious basis ) , while `` modern polyamory '' or `` egalitarian polyamory '' implies a relationship defined by negotiation between Polyamory members , rather than by cultural norms .
Separate from polyamory as a philosophical basis for relationship , are the practical ways in which people who live polyamorously arrange Polyamory lives and handle certain issues , as compared to those of a generally more socially acceptable monogamous arrangement .
Gay psychotherapist Michael Shernoff wrote that non-monogamy is `` a well-accepted part of gay subculture , '' although `` often viewed by some therapists as problematic , '' and that somewhere between 30 % and 67 % of men in male couples reported being in Polyamory .
Whether children are fully informed of the nature of Polyamory parents ' relationship varies , according to the above considerations and also to whether the parents are `` out '' to other adults .
After contesting the decision for two years , Divilbiss eventually agreed to relinquish her daughter , acknowledging that she was unable to adequately care for her child and that this , rather than her polyamory , had been the grandparents ' real motivation in seeking custody .
At the time of publication , Russell 's questioning of the Victorian notions of morality regarding sex and marriage prompted vigorous protests and denunciations , but several intellectuals , led by John Dewey , spoke out against this treatment .
A comprehensive government study of sexual attitudes , behaviors and relationships in Finland in 1992 ( age 18-75 , around 50 % both genders ) found that around 200 out of 2250 ( 8.9 % ) respondents `` agreed or strongly agreed '' with the statement `` I could maintain several sexual relationships at the same time '' and 8.2 % indicated a relationship type `` that best suits '' at the present stage of life would involve multiple partners .
Morin ( 1999 ) states that a couple has a very good chance of adjusting to nonexclusivity if at least some of the following conditions exist : According to Shernoff , if the matter is discussed with a third party , such as a therapist , the task of the therapist is to : In The Ethical Slut , Dossie Easton and Janet Hardy ( writing as ` Catherine Liszt ' ) described an argument against polyamory which posits that when one 's love is divided among multiple partners , the love is lessened .
Many polyamorists , including Easton and Hardy , reject the idea that dividing love among multiple partners automatically lessens Polyamory .
Pope Stephen VI , the successor of Boniface , influenced by Lambert and Agiltrude , sat in judgment of Pope Formosus in 897 , in what was called the Cadaver Synod .
Sergius reportedly had the much-abused corpse of Pope Formosus exhumed once more , tried , found guilty again , and beheaded , thus in effect conducting a second Cadaver Synod : although Joseph Brusher , S.J. says that `` Sergius III indulged in no resurrection-man tactics himself '' and Schaff , Milman , Gregorovius , von Mosheim , Miley , Mann , Darras , John the Deacon of Naples , Flodoard , and others make no mention of this story .
This forms the proalbumin after the signal peptide is cleaved , and a further processing to remove the N-terminal 6-residue propeptide yields the mature form of the protein .
The initiating methonine ( and in prokaryotes , fMet ) may be removed during translation of the nascent protein .
Proteases in particular are synthesized in the inactive form so that Proteolysis may be safely stored in cells , and ready for released in sufficient quantity when required .
In contrast , other proteins like actin and myosin have half-life of a month or more , while haemoglobin essentially lasts for the entire life-time of erythrocyte .
The N-end rule may partially determine the half-life of a protein , and proteins with segments rich in proline , glutamine , serine , and threonine ( the so-called PEST proteins ) have short half-life .
Polycystin-1 , encoded by PKD1 gene , is thought to be associated with polycystin-2 protein and regulates polycystin-2 's channel activity .
In ADPKD the original `` hit '' is congenital ( in either the PKD1 or PKD2 genes ) and the subsequent `` hit '' occurs later in life as the cells grow and divide .
Between PKD1 and PKD2 , the former has the worse prognosis .
Potsdamer Platz ( , literally Potsdamer Platz ) is an important public square and traffic intersection in the centre of Berlin , Germany , lying about 1 km south of the Brandenburg Gate and the Reichstag ( German Parliament Building ) , and close to the southeast corner of the Tiergarten park .
Potsdamer Platz is named after the city of Potsdam , some 25 km to the south west , and marks the point where the old road from Potsdam passed through the city wall of Berlin at the Potsdam Gate .
The history of Potsdamer Platz can probably be traced back to 29 October 1685 , when the Tolerance Edict of Potsdam was signed , whereby Frederick William , Elector of Brandenburg-Prussia from 1640 to 1688 , allowed large numbers of religious refugees , including Jews from Austria and Huguenots expelled from France , to settle on his territory .
The biggest of these was Friedrichstadt , just south west of the historic core of Berlin , begun in 1688 and named after new Elector Frederick William III , who later became King Frederick I of Prussia .
In 1721-3 a south-westwards expansion of Friedrichstadt was planned under the orders of King Frederick William I , and this was completed in 1732-4 by architect Johann Philipp Gerlach ( 1679 -- 1748 ) .
In 1735-7 , after Friedrichstadt 's expansion was complete , a customs or excise wall , 17 km long and 4.2 m high , was erected around Berlin 's new perimeter .
Starting in 1754 a daily stagecoach ran between Berlin and Potsdam , although the road was in poor shape .
Just inside the gate was a large octagonal area , created at the time of Friedrichstadt 's expansion in 1732-4 and bisected by Leipziger Straße ; this was one of several parade grounds for the thousands of soldiers garrisoned in Berlin at the height of the Kingdom of Prussia .
Under both schemes the old rural intersection just outside the Potsdam Gate , and the Octagon ( Leipziger Platz ) just inside , were to be joined together to create a long rectangular space , with a gargantuan edifice standing in the middle of Potsdamer Platz .
To be known as the Residenzkirche , Potsdamer Platz was again , never built due to lack of funds , and in any case the national fervour of the period favoured the long-awaited completion of Cologne Cathedral over a new building , but Schinkel went on to become one of the most prolific and celebrated architects of his time .
The one on the north side served as the customs house and excise collection point , while Potsdamer Platz southern counterpart was a military guardhouse , set up to prevent desertions of Prussian soldiers , which had become a major problem .
However , the country folk were permitted to set up trading posts of their own just outside the gates , and the Potsdam Gate especially .
These became the homes of civil servants , officers , bankers , artists and politicians among others , and earned the area the nickname `` Millionaires ' Quarter '' although Potsdamer Platz official designation was Friedrichvorstadt ( Friedrich 's Suburb ) , or alternatively the Tiergartenviertel ( Tiergarten Quarter ) .
Both termini began life as fairly modest affairs , but in order to cope with increasing demands both went on to much bigger and better things in later years , a new Potsdamer Bahnhof , destined to be Berlin 's busiest station , opening on 30 August 1872 and a new Anhalter Bahnhof , destined to be the city 's biggest and finest , following on 15 June 1880 .
This was a connecting line opened in October 1851 and running around the city just inside the customs wall , crossing numerous streets and squares at street level , and whose purpose was to allow goods to be transported between the various Berlin stations , thus creating a hated traffic obstruction that lasted for twenty years .
Half a dozen or more times a day , Potsdamer Platz ground to a halt while a train of 60 to 100 wagons trundled through at walking pace preceded by a railway official ringing a bell .
The construction of the Ringbahn around the city 's perimeter , linked to all the major stations , allowed the connecting line to be scrapped in 1871 , although the Ringbahn itself was not complete and open for all traffic until 15 November 1877 .
In 1939 the S-Bahn followed , Potsdamer Platz North-South Link between Unter den Linden and Yorckstraße opening in stages during the year , the Potsdamer Platz S-Bahn station itself opening on 15 April .
In Stresemannstraße , and paralleling the Potsdamer Bahnhof on Potsdamer Platz eastern side , was another great magnet for shoppers and tourists alike - a huge multi-national-themed eating establishment : the Haus Vaterland .
Designed by architect Franz Heinrich Schwechten ( 1841 -- 1924 ) , who was also responsible for the Anhalter Bahnhof and the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church , it was erected in 1911-12 as the Haus Potsdam .
These included : Rheinterrasse , Löwenbräu ( Bavarian beer restaurant ) , Grinzing ( Viennese café and wine bar ) , Bodega ( Spanish winery ) , Csarda ( Hungarian ) , Wild West Bar ( aka the Arizona Bar ) ( American ) , Osteria ( Italian ) , Kombüse ( Bremen drinking den - literally `` galley '' ) , Rübchen ( Teltow , named after the well-known turnip dish Teltower Rübchen , made with turnips grown locally in the small town of Teltow just outside Berlin ) , plus a Turkish cafe and Japanese tearoom ; additionally there was a large ballroom .
Among the major hotels at or near Potsdamer Platz were two designed by the same architect , Otto Rehnig ( 1864 -- 1925 ) , and opened in the same year , 1908 .
The other was the Hotel Excelsior , also 600 rooms but superior provision of other facilities made Potsdamer Platz the largest hotel in Continental Europe , located in Stresemannstraße opposite the Anhalter Bahnhof and connected to Potsdamer Platz by a 100-metre-long subterranean passageway complete with a parade of underground shops .
Meanwhile , facing the Palast Hotel across the entrance to Leipziger Platz ( the Potsdam Gate ) , was the 400-room Hotel Fürstenhof , by Richard Bielenberg ( 1871 -- 1929 ) and Josef Moser ( 1872 -- 1963 ) , erected in 1906-7 , also on the site of an earlier building .
The Weinhaus Huth , with Potsdamer Platz distinctive corner cupola , was a wedge-shaped structure located in the angle between Potsdamer Straße and Link Straße ( literally `` Left Street '' ) , and with entrances in both streets .
A total of 15 chefs were employed there , and Alois Hitler , the stepbrother of the future Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler , was a waiter there in the 1920s , before he opened his own restaurant and hotel at Wittenbergplatz , in the western part of the city .
Café Josty was one of two rival cafés ( the other being the Astoria , later Café Eins A ) , occupying the broad corner between Potsdamer Straße and Bellevuestraße .
Many of the total of 14 banquet and beer halls had a Wagnerian theme - indeed , the very name of the complex was taken from the Wagner opera Das Rheingold , the first of the four parts of the cycle Der Ring des Nibelungen , although this name did hark back to the building 's planned former role as a concert venue .
Finally , on the corner between Potsdamer Straße and the Potsdamer Bahnhof , stood Bierhaus Siechen , built by Johann Emil Schaudt ( 1874 -- 1957 ) , opened in 1910 and later relaunched under the new name Pschorr-Haus .
Standing alongside the Weinhaus Rheingold 's Potsdamer Straße entrance , this five-storey steel-framed edifice had been erected as an office building in 1907-8 by architect and one-time Berlin inspector of buildings Otto Stahn ( 1859 -- 1930 ) , who was also responsible for the city 's Oberbaumbrücke over the River Spree .
The traffic problems that had blighted Potsdamer Platz for decades continued to be a big headache , despite the new lights , and these led to a strong desire to solve them once and for all .
One design submitted by Wagner himself comprised an array of gleaming new buildings arranged around a vast multi-level system of fly-overs and underpasses , with a huge glass-roofed circular car-park in the middle .
Columbushaus was completed and opened in January 1933 , the same month that the Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler ( 1889 -- 1945 ) came to power .
In the event , a substantial amount of demolition did take place in Potsdamer Straße , between the platz itself and the Landwehrkanal , and this became the location of the one Germania building that actually went forward to a state of virtual completion : architect Theodor Dierksmeier 's Haus des Fremdenverkehrs ( House of Tourism ) , basically a giant state-run travel agency .
Here Albert Speer erected Hitler 's enormous new Reich Chancellery building , and yet even this was little more than a dry run for an even larger structure some distance further away .
As well as swastika flags and propaganda everywhere , Nazi-affiliated concerns occupied a great many buildings in the area , especially Columbushaus , where they took over most of the upper floors .
As was the case in most of central Berlin , almost all of the buildings around Potsdamer Platz were turned to rubble by air raids and heavy artillery bombardment during the last years of World War II .
Once the bombing and shelling had largely ceased , the ground invasion began as Soviet forces stormed the centre of Berlin street by street , building by building , aiming to capture the Reich Chancellery and other key symbols of the Nazi government .
When the city was divided into sectors by the occupying Allies at the end of the war , the square found itself on the boundary between the American , British and Soviet sectors .
Meanwhile , friction between the Western Allies and Soviets was steadily rising .
This was up and running by 25 November 1950 , less than seven weeks after Potsdamer Platz western counterpart although Potsdamer Platz had a much shorter life , and was gone by 29 January 1953 .
Facing towards West Berlin was the proclamation DER KLUGE BERLINER KAUFT BEI DER H.O. ( The Wise Berliner Buys With The H.O. ) Underneath were the words NÄCHSTE VERKAUFSSTELLEN ( Next Sales Premises ) , between two arrows pointing left and right , suggesting that large shopping developments were forthcoming in the immediate vicinity , although these never appeared .
Whatever the casualty figures , for the second time in eight years , the `` busiest and most famous square in Europe '' had been transformed into a bloody battleground .
As Cold War tensions rose still further during the 1950s , restrictions were placed on travel between the Soviet sector ( East Berlin ) and the western sectors ( West Berlin ) .
A short distance away stood portions of the former Hotel Esplanade , including the Kaisersaal , used at various times as a much scaled-down hotel , cinema , nightclub and occasional film-set ( scenes from Cabaret were shot there ) .
After the initial opening of the Berlin Wall on 9 November 1989 , Potsdamer Platz became one of the earliest locations where the Wall was `` breached '' to create a new border crossing between East and West Berlin .
On 21 July 1990 , ex-Pink Floyd member Roger Waters staged a gigantic charity concert of his former band 's rock extravaganza The Wall to commemorate the end of the division between East and West Germany .
Ironically Potsdamer Platz was preparations for this concert , rather than historical interest , that brought about the first detailed post-Cold War survey of the area with a view to determining what , if anything , was left of Hitler 's bunker and any other underground installations .
Although sections of the main Führerbunker were found , partially destroyed or filled in , another bunker complex was found further north that even the East German authorities had apparently missed , plus other cavities beneath land bordering the east side of Ebertstraße , although these turned out to be underground garages belonging to a former SS accommodation block .
The Berlin Senate ( city government ) organised a design competition for the redevelopment of Potsdamer Platz and much of the surrounding area .
The largest of the four parts went to Daimler-Benz ( later Daimler-Chrysler and now Daimler AG ) , who charged Italian architect Renzo Piano with creating an overall design for their scheme while sticking to the underlying requirements of Hilmer & Sattler 's masterplan .
This new Sony Centre , designed by Helmut Jahn , is an eye-catching monolith of glass and steel featuring an enormous tent-like conical roof , Potsdamer Platz shape reportedly inspired by Mount Fuji in Japan , covering an elliptical central public space up to 102 metres across , and thus differing substantially from Hilmer & Sattler 's original plan for the site .
Surviving parts of the former Hotel Esplanade have been incorporated into the north side of the Sony development , including the Kaisersaal which , in a complex and costly operation in March 1996 , was moved in one piece ( all 1,300 tonnes of it ) , some 75 metres from its former location , to the spot that it occupies today ( it even had to make two right-angled turns during the journey , while maintaining Potsdamer Platz own orientation ) .
Additionally the remarkably low price for which Daimler-Benz had been allowed to secure their plot had prompted questions from the Berlin Auditor-General 's office and the European Union in Brussels , after which Daimler-Benz were billed for an additional sum .
There were wrangles over land-usage : although a central feature of the Daimler-Benz development is a top shopping mall - the Arkaden ( Arcades ) , this did not form part of the plans until the Berlin Senate belatedly insisted that a shopping mall be included , and the plans were altered accordingly .
Further wrangles effectively brought work on the north side of Leipziger Platz to a complete stop for several years ; even now there are some `` fake facades '' where completed new buildings should be , while a long-running dispute over who owned the Wertheim department store site ( or had claims to the revenue from Potsdamer Platz sale by the government ) , has to this day left another large gap in the central Berlin cityscape that is only now finally being redeveloped .
40,000 square metres , the lowest ( basement ) level being a food floor ; there are also four major hotels , and Europe 's largest casino ( the `` Spielbank Berlin '' ) .
A new underground main-line station or Regionalbahnhof ( Bahnhof Potsdamer Platz ) has also been constructed , opened on 26 July 2006 .
Another annual tradition that began in West Berlin ( in 1952 ) and was re-routed into the east via Potsdamer Platz following German reunification is the Weihnachtszug ( Christmas train ) .
Daimler and Sony caused a major surprise on 2 October 2007 when both announced that they were putting their respective complexes at Potsdamer Platz on the market .
Whilst neither intended to move out , both felt Potsdamer Platz preferable to rent the space from new owners rather than continue to be the owners themselves ( and so be responsible for the buildings ' upkeep and maintenance ) .
The implications for Potsdamer Platz were ominous , with suggestions that overall confidence in the project was faltering , and more pessimistic claims that the development had largely failed in Potsdamer Platz original intentions .
The other major sticking point , which is reportedly causing concern at government level , is that the majority of people going to Potsdamer Platz are visitors to the city , implying that the original vision of the development as a linking element attracting Berliners themselves , and Berliners from both sides of the former divide , has not really materialised .
Potsdamer Platz is two designed by the same architect , Otto Rehnig ( 1864 -- 1925 ) , and opened in the same year , 1908 .
Potsdamer Platz is one of the earliest locations where the Wall was `` breached '' to create a new border crossing between East and West Berlin .
Potsdamer Platz is preparations for this concert , rather than historical interest , that brought about the first detailed post-Cold War survey of the area with a view to determining what , if anything , was left of Hitler 's bunker and any other underground installations .
Pointing device is usually found on laptops embedded between the ` G ' , ` H ' , and ` B ' keys .
A cursor ( also called a puck ) is similar to a mouse , except that Pointing device has a window with cross hairs for pinpoint placement , and Pointing device can have as many as 16 buttons .
The tablet contains electronics that enable Pointing device to detect movement of the cursor or pen and translate the movements into digital signals that Pointing device sends to the computer '' .
The stylus is the primary input device for personal digital assistants and smartphones that require accurate input , although devices featuring multi-touch finger-input with capacitive touchscreens are becoming more popular than stylus-driven devices in the smartphone market .
Po (river) is a river that flows either 652 km or 682 km -- considering the length of the Maira , a right bank tributary -- eastward across northern Italy , from a spring seeping from a stony hillside at Pian del Re , a flat place at the head of the Val Po under the northwest face of Monviso ( in the Cottian Alps ) through a delta projecting into the Adriatic Sea near Venice .
Po (river) has a drainage area of 74,000 km ² in all , 70,000 in Italy , of which 41,000 is in montane environments and 29,000 on the plain .
Near the end of Po (river) course , Po (river) creates a wide delta ( with hundreds of small channels and five main ones , called Po di Maestra , Po della Pila , Po delle Tolle , Po di Gnocca and Po di Goro ) at the southern part of which is Comacchio , an area famous for eels .
The vast valley around the Po is called the Po Basin or Po Valley ( Italian Pianura Padana or Val Padana ) ; in time Po (river) became the main industrial area of the country .
The industrial centres , such as Turin and Milan , are located on higher terrain , away from Po (river) .
The latter method is the chief consumer of surface water , while industrial and human consumption use underground water .
The Po Delta wetlands have been protected by the institution of two regional parks in the regions in which Po (river) is situated : Veneto and Emilia-Romagna .
The Po Delta Regional Park in Emilia-Romagna , the largest , consists of four parcels of land on the right bank of Po (river) and to the south .
Created by law in 1988 , Po (river) is managed by a consortium , the Consorzio per la gestione de Parco , to which Ferrara and Ravenna provinces belong as well as nine comuni : Comacchio , Argenta , Ostellato , Goro , Mesola , Codigoro , Ravenna , Alfonsine , and Cervia .
Po (river) has a high biodiversity , with 1000-1100 plant species and 374 vertebrate species , of which 300 are birds .
Po (river) followed the Po di Volano , no longer connected to Po (river) , which ran to the south of Ferrara and exited near Volano .
In the last period of the Miocene Epoch , the Messinian ( 7-5 mya ) , the Messinian salinity crisis , a near drying of the Mediterranean , was caused by the sea level dropping below the sill at the Strait of Gibraltar and the between evaporation and replenishment shifting in favor of evaporation .
The rate of coastal zone progradation between 1000 BC and 1200 AD was 4 m/yr .
Currently Po (river) is a decentralized institution of the Ministry of Public Works , headed by a chairman appointed by the Head of State and the Council of Ministers .
Po (river) considers Po (river) a synergy among all the institutions concerned with the preservation and development of the Po basin .
Po (river) is administered by officials chosen from the administrations of the constituent regions and provinces .
Po (river) is first certainly identified in the Graeco-Roman historians and geographers of the late Roman Republic and the early Roman Empire , long after the valley had been occupied successively by prehistoric and historic peoples : Ligures , Etruscans , Celts , Veneti , Umbri , and Romans .
Perhaps the earliest of these , Polybius ( 2nd century BC ) , uses Pados ( in Greek ) and says that Po (river) was to be identified with the Eridanos of the poets .
Phaëthon , son of the sun , struck by lightning changed into poplars and exuded tears every year , which is the source of amber ( a myth of Pausanias ) .
Po (river) is a river that flows either 652 km or 682 km -- considering the length of the Maira , a right bank tributary -- eastward across northern Italy .
Po (river) is a decentralized institution of the Ministry of Public Works , headed by a chairman appointed by the Head of State and the Council of Ministers .
The Gräfenberg spot , or G-Spot , is a debated area of female anatomy , particularly among doctors and researchers , but Anal sex is described as being located behind the female pubic bone surrounding the urethra and accessible through the anterior wall of the vagina ; it is considered to have tissue and nerves that are related to the clitoris .
The attitudes of women as receptive sex partners are diverse : some consider the practice painful or uncomfortable , while others find Anal sex pleasurable and some even prefer Anal sex to vaginal intercourse .
The vaginal walls contain significantly fewer nerve endings than the clitoris and anus , and intense sexual pleasure and orgasm from vaginal-only penetration is less likely to occur than clitoral-only stimulation in most women .
This does not , however , imply that anal-only stimulation is more likely to result in orgasm than vaginal-only stimulation ; certain nerves and how Anal sex interact with other nerves play a role and `` total separation between the vagina and clitoris is mostly artificial , and often based on a misunderstanding of what , where , and how big the clitoris really is , '' as the clitoris also surrounds the vagina and anus ( see above ) .
In a study of heterosexual anal sex , female participants stated that direct stimulation of multiple erogenous zones simultaneously ( the clitoris , the G-Spot , the anus , or other erogenous zones ) enabled them to enjoy anal intercourse with much less discomfort compared to anal penetration by Anal sex and to orgasm from Anal sex .
The risk of injury to the receptive partner due to anal intercourse is many times higher than that due to vaginal sex , and the risk of transmission of HIV is higher for anal sex than for vaginal sex .
Among men who have anal sex with other men , the insertive partner is called the top and the one being penetrated is called the bottom .
Magnus Hirschfeld , in his 1914 work , The Homosexuality of Men and Women , reported the rate of anal sex among homosexual men surveyed to be 8 % , the least favored of all the practices documented .
Stall , UCSF ) and the Young Men 's Study ( YMS , PI Osmond/Catania , UCSF ) , indicate that 50 % of the surveyed men who have sex with men engage in anal sex .
One study found that about 12 % of gay men find Anal sex too painful to pursue , and concluded that the perception of anal sex as painful is just as likely to be psychologically or emotionally based as Anal sex is to be physically based .
While author Tom Boellstorff , when particularly examining anal sex among gay and lesbian individuals in Indonesia , stated that he has not heard of oral-anal contact or anal penetration as recognized forms of lesbian sexuality but assume they take place , author Felice Newman cites anal sex as a part of lesbian sexual practices in her book .
Among the female control group studied , 21.5 percent had reported practicing anal sex , a significant increase from a previous case-control study by epidemiologist Janet Daling ( PhD , member of Fred Hutchinson 's Public Health Sciences Division ) and her colleagues , published in 1987 , in which 11 percent of female controls had reported ever having anal sex .
The term Greek love has long been used to refer to the practice , and in modern times , `` doing Anal sex the Greek way '' is sometimes used as slang for anal sex .
While pedagogic pederasty was an essential element in the education of male youths , these relationships , at least in Athens and Sparta , were expected to steer clear of penetrative sex of any kind .
For a male citizen to take the passive ( or receptive ) role in anal intercourse was condemned in Rome as an act of impudicitia ( immodesty or unchastity ) .
Liwat , or the sin of Lot 's people , is officially prohibited by most Islamic sects .
Same sex male practitioners of anal relations are called luti or lutiyin in plural and are seen as criminals in the same way that a thief is a criminal , meaning that Anal sex are giving in to a universal temptation .
Pete Best was eventually replaced by Ringo Starr on 16 August 1962 , when the group 's manager , Brian Epstein , dismissed Best under the direction of John Lennon , Paul McCartney , and George Harrison , following their first recording session at Abbey Road Studios .
Best had been seen playing in The Casbah with Pete Best own group , the Black Jacks , and it was noted that Pete Best was a steady drummer , playing the bass drum on all four beats in the bar , which pushed the rhythm .
Ron Richards and Pete Best engineer , Norman Smith , recorded four songs , which Martin ( who was not present during the recording ) listened to at the end of the session .
The recording convinced Martin that the group was good enough to be signed to a contract , but with one exception : Martin and Pete Best engineers wanted to use an experienced session drummer in Best 's place , as was common practice at the time .
Many years later Martin still expressed regret about Pete Best decision and what followed : `` Pete Best decided that the drums , which are really the backbone of a good rock group , did n't give the boys enough support .
They needed a good solid beat , and Pete Best said to Brian , ` Look , it does n't matter what you do with the boys , but on record , nobody need know .
As Pete Best wrote in Pete Best autobiography , A Cellarful of Noise , Pete Best `` was n't sure '' about Martin 's assessment of Best 's drumming and `` was not anxious to change the membership of The Beatles at a time when they were developing as personalities ... Pete Best asked The Beatles to leave the group as it was '' .
This left Best on the outside , as Pete Best was not privy to many of the group 's experiences , references , and in-jokes .
Best was described by Dot Rhone -- McCartney 's girlfriend at the time , who later visited Hamburg -- as being very quiet , and never taking part in conversations with the group .
McCartney 's father , Jim McCartney , was present at the time and admonished Best by saying : `` Why did you have to attract all the attention ?
Martin used session musician Andy White on the third session for `` Love Me Do '' on 11 September , and not Starr , who was Pete Best 's replacement .
Pete Best conspired to get Ringo in for good ; Pete Best talked to Paul and John until they came round to the idea '' .
Best decided to leave show business , and by the time of Hunter Davies ' authorised Beatles ' biography in 1968 , Pete Best was not willing to talk about Pete Best Beatles association .
Pete Best education qualifications subsequently helped Pete Best become a civil servant working at the Garston Jobcentre in Liverpool , where Pete Best rose from employment officer to training manager for the Northwest of England , and , ironically , remembered `` a steady stream of real-life Yosser Hughes types '' imploring Pete Best to give them jobs .
The Pete Best Band 's album Haymans Green , made entirely from original material , was released on 16 September 2008 in the US , 24 October 2008 worldwide excluding the UK and 27 October 2008 in the UK .
, a comedy play written by Liverpool playwright Fred Lawless , was staged at the Liverpool Everyman Theatre and the Dublin Theatre Festival in 1995 and 1996 .
The play was critically acclaimed in both the Liverpool Echo and also in Spencer Leigh 's 1998 book Drummed Out : The Sacking of Pete Best .
Port Adelaide Football Club , now being referred to as `` the Magpies '' , won premierships in 1903 , 1906 , 1910 , 1913 and 1914 , besides achieving a perfect minor round in 1912 before being unexpectedly beaten by West Adelaide in both the challenge final and final .
Champion players in this era included Bob Quinn , Sampson Hosking , Les Dayman and Bob McLean Desperate to improve Port Adelaide Football Club performance , the Port Adelaide committee went in search of a coach that could win Port Adelaide Football Club a premiership .
Off-field , a dispute between the Port Adelaide City Council and the SANFL over the use of Alberton Oval forced Port Adelaide to move Port Adelaide Football Club home matches to Adelaide Oval for two seasons from 1975 to 1976 .
This saw Port Adelaide 's form drop and Port Adelaide Football Club failed to win another premiership until 1988 .
Meanwhile , the 1980s marked the rise of the VFL as the premier football competition in the country and many SANFL players were moving to the VFL for the larger salaries on offer .
This was fast tracked in 1987 when a team from Western Australia , the West Coast Eagles , and a team from Brisbane , the Brisbane Bears joined the VFL .
In 1990 , the Port Adelaide Football Club , frustrated at the SANFL 's lack of action and looking to secure Port Adelaide Football Club own future , accepted an invitation from the VFL to join what had now become the AFL .
After legal action from all parties , the AFL finally agreed to accept the SANFL 's bid and the Adelaide Football Club was born .
In 1995 , a new guernsey ( jumper ) was created with the look unveiled made up of Black , White , Silver and Teal which represents the water of the Port River .
Although for the next 10 years , the Port Adelaide in the AFL would enjoy success on and off the field , including a premiership , The Magpies struggled to find form on the field from 2000 onward .
The Magpies , who had been the most successful club in Australia , started to be the laughing stock of the state because Port Adelaide Football Club were being thrashed week-in , week-out , while Centrals were enjoying envied success , winning eight of the next ten SANFL premierships , and becoming the first team to appear in all of the Grand Finals in a decade .
In 2006 Tim Ginever , who was Cahill 's assistant in 2005 , took over the reins as senior coach and Mark Clayton as the new captain of Port Adelaide Football Club .
Only one point separated the sides at half time , however late in the third quarter Port Adelaide took the ascendency and romped home in the final term to win by 40 points : 17.11 ( 113 ) to 10.13 ( 73 ) .
2006 Best and Fairest Brendon Lade and midfielder Shaun Burgoyne each scored 15 votes , while NAB Rising Star Danyle Pearce took thirteen -- with Port Adelaide finishing the count with 67 votes -- one of the top eight clubs for the night .
Roger James says he had always viewed the Power as a new club `` I understand Port 's background but as far as I 'm concerned the Power was started from scratch , has only been in the ( AFL ) competition for 11 years and was made up of players from every SANFL club , to me , Port Adelaide Football Club heritage goes back to 1997 and that 's why I question the decision to wear a Magpies jumper '' .
Josh Francou commented that `` Port Adelaide Football Club 's time to move on , I can understand Port wanting to recognise Port Adelaide Football Club history but there is still a stigma attached with the Port Magpies in that if you do n't like them you absolutely hate them and I think Port -- while still being respectful of Port Adelaide Football Club heritage -- has to move away from that '' .
On 9 February , it was announced that Domenic Cassisi will become the Power 's new captain for the 2009 season , with Shaun Burgoyne and Kane Cornes appointed as vice-captains .
Cassisi 's elevation to captaincy generated controversy due to coach Mark Williams originally wanting Shaun Burgoyne or Chad Cornes to be captain , which was overruled by the Power 's administration board .
The Power had accumulated a consolidated debt totalling $ 5.1 million and was unable to pay Port Adelaide Football Club players ; Port Adelaide Football Club had lost $ 1.4 million the season before , a year in which they finished 13th , and had their average home crowds drop to little more than 23,000 .
The Power notched up an extra two/three wins to climb to 10th position on the AFL ladder and , in the third year of a five-year plan , are slowly heading in the right direction .
The Power 's frustratingly inconsistent form and significant lapses within games raised concerns over Port Adelaide Football Club mental state and willingness to dig in when the going got tough .
Jay Schulz , who was recruited in the 2009 AFL trade week , rewarded the club for Port Adelaide Football Club faith , topping the goalkicking with 33 goals , while many of the club 's younger players , such as Andrew Moore , Mitchell Banner , Matthew Broadbent , Cameron Hitchcock and Daniel Stewart , were given valuable game time .
Other players , such as Travis Boak and Danyle Pearce , continued their rise to an elite midfielder status , filling the void left by Shaun Burgoyne who had left Port Adelaide Football Club , with Boak averaging 22 possessions , six tackles and one goal during the season .
Other more experienced players , such as Kane Cornes , Troy Chaplin , Alipate Carlile and captain Domenic Cassisi , continued their good form from 2009 .
However , not all was positive for Port Adelaide players , with veterans Chad Cornes and Daniel Motlop both struggling to produce their best form this season and being sent to the SANFL at different stages .
Rounds 20 and 21 saw Port Adelaide Football Club lose to Collingwood and Hawthorn by club record losing margins ( 138 and 165 respectively ) , as well as having their lowest score since joining the AFL ; 3.3 ( 21 ) against Collingwood .
Robert Gray ( who led Port Adelaide Football Club in goalkicking ) and Jackson Trengove , were the only two players , to have played every game of the season .
The season also saw the retirements of premiership players Chad Cornes and Dean Brogan ( both later decided to play with new expansion club Greater Western Sydney ) .
AFL Chief executive Andrew Demetriou , offered $ 9 million over the next three years to help Port Adelaide Football Club , ahead of the move to the Adelaide Oval , which resulted in the resignation of the Chief Executive , Mark Haysman , who was replaced by Keith Thomas , and three board members .
Port Adelaide Football Club both announced a day after John 's death that their players will wear black armbands for their semi-final matches and the AFL players association announced that both games will have a minutes silence before the national anthem is played , which is always played before each finals match .
1 Matthew Primus only managed to play in Round 3 , 2004 , leaving Warren Tredrea to captain Port Adelaide Football Club to 2 and Round 4 to the Grand Final .
Since then there have been two further inductions , one on 5 April 2002 , with a further eight members joining the Hall of Fame , and then a further three on 9 May 2003 .
All 22 members of Port Adelaide Football Club played significant parts in ensuring Port Adelaide Football Club rise from the SANFL to the AFL in 1997 -- and the demand of the SA Football Commission that a Magpies team be kept in the South Australian National Football League ( SANFL ) .
There are 201 premiership medals held by the 22 players in the Greatest Team ; 532 State games ; 16 Magarey Medal and a long list of accolades and achievements .
At the end of the season , nine AFL personalities ( typically administrators and All-Australian team selectors ) vote for five of the twenty-two rising star nominees , with their top selections earning five votes , their second selection earning four votes , etc.
The International Rules Series is a senior men 's competition between an Irish representative team ( selected by the Gaelic Athletic Association ) and the Australian representative team ( selected by the Australian Football League ) .
Proteasome are part of a major mechanism by which cells regulate the concentration of particular proteins and degrade misfolded proteins .
Later work on modification of histones led to the identification of an unexpected covalent modification of the histone protein by a bond between a lysine side chain of the histone and the C-terminal glycine residue of ubiquitin , a protein that had no known function .
The core is hollow and provides an enclosed cavity in which proteins are degraded ; openings at the two ends of the core allow the target protein to enter .
The outer two rings in Proteasome stack consist of seven α subunits each , which serve as docking domains for the regulatory particles and the alpha subunits N-termini form a gate that blocks unregulated access of substrates to the interior cavity .
This ring is a trimer of dimers : Rpt1/Rpt2 , Rpt6/Rpt3 , and Rpt4/Rpt5 dimerize via their N-terminal coiled-coils .
The second ubiquitin receptor identified to date , Rpn10 , is positioned at the periphery of the lid , near subunits Rpn8 and Rpn9 .
20S gate opening , and thus substrate degradation , requires the C-termini of the proteasomal ATPases , which contains a specific motif ( i.e. , HbYX motif ) .
These receptor proteins may escort polyubiquitinated proteins to the proteasome , though the specifics of this interaction and Proteasome regulation are unclear .
The ubiquitin protein Proteasome is 76 amino acids long and was named due to Proteasome ubiquitous nature , as Proteasome has a highly conserved sequence and is found in all known eukaryotic organisms .
However , the order in which substrates are deubiquitinated and unfolded is not yet clear .
Long sequences of alternating glycine and alanine have been shown to inhibit substrate unfolding decreasing the efficiency of proteasomal degradation ; this results in the release of partially degraded byproducts , possibly due to the decoupling of the ATP hydrolysis and unfolding steps .
Certain transcription factors regulating the expression of specific genes , including one component of the mammalian complex NF-κB , are synthesized as inactive precursors whose ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation converts them to an active form .
Earlier cell cycle checkpoints such as post-restriction point check between G1 phase and S phase similarly involve proteasomal degradation of cyclin A , whose ubiquitination is promoted by the anaphase promoting complex ( APC ) , an E3 ubiquitin ligase .
The APC and the Skp1/Cul1/F-box protein complex ( SCF complex ) are the two key regulators of cyclin degradation and checkpoint control ; the SCF Proteasome is regulated by the APC via ubiquitination of the adaptor protein , Skp2 , which prevents SCF activity before the G1-S transition .
Gankyrin , a recently identified oncoprotein , is one of the 19S subcomponents that also tightly binds the cyclin-dependent kinase CDK4 and plays a key role in recognizing ubiquitinated p53 , via Proteasome affinity for the ubiquitin ligase MDM2 .
The ability of proteasome inhibitors to induce apoptosis in rapidly dividing cells has been exploited in several recently developed chemotherapy agents such as bortezomib and .
Both Hsp27 and Hsp90 -- chaperone proteins have been implicated in increasing the activity of the ubiquitin-proteasome system , though Proteasome are not direct participants in the process .
The CHIP protein ( carboxyl terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein ) is Proteasome regulated via inhibition of interactions between the E3 enzyme CHIP and Proteasome E2 binding partner .
Although constitutively expressed Proteasome can participate in this process , a specialized complex composed of proteins , whose expression is induced by interferon gamma , are the primary producers of peptides which are optimal in size and composition for MHC binding .
The strength of MHC class I ligand binding is dependent on the composition of the ligand C-terminus , as peptides bind by hydrogen bonding and by close contacts with a region called the `` B pocket '' on the MHC surface .
Bortezomib , a molecule developed by Millennium Pharmaceuticals and marketed as Velcade , is the first proteasome inhibitor to reach clinical use as a chemotherapy agent .
Preclinical and early clinical studies have been started to examine bortezomib 's effectiveness in treating other B-cell-related cancers , particularly some types of non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma .
The Persians of Central Asia who inhabit Tajikistan and parts of Afghanistan and Uzbekistan are also called Tajiks , while the term Tajik is contemporaneously also used for Iranian people who speak Pamiri languages .
The Old Persians , who were one of these ethnic Iranian groups , were originally nomadic , pastoral people in the western Iranian plateau and by 850 BCE were calling themselves the Parsa and their constantly shifting territory Parsua for the most part localized around Persis ( Pars ) , bounded on the west by Tigris river and on the south by the Persian Gulf .
However , the Medes and Persians played a major role in the downfall of Assyria , after Persian people had been riven by internal civil war .
The Greeks ( who tended earlier to use names related to `` Median '' ) began in the 5th century to use adjectives such as Perses , Persica or Persis for Cyrus the Great 's empire , which is where the word Persian in English comes from .
The first Persian empire extended as far as the limits of the Greek city states , where Persians and Athenians influenced each other in what is essentially a reciprocal cultural exchange .
During Sassanian Iran , a national culture , fully aware of being `` Iranian '' took shape and was partially motivated by the restoration and the revival of the wisdom of the `` sages of old , '' dānāgān pēšēnīgān .
Ibn al-Nadim among other medieval historians , for instance , wrote that `` The Iranian languages are Fahlavi ( Pahlavi ) , Dari , Khuzi , Persian and Suryani '' , and Ibn Moqaffa noted that Khuzi was the unofficial language of the royalty of Persia , `` Khuz '' being the corrupted name for Elam .
Accordingly the term `` Persian '' was used in the Western world as the people inhabiting Iran ; for instance , Ramsay MacDonald ( 1866 -- 1937 ) , the Prime-Minister of the United Kingdom , and the British ambassador in Iran , Percy Loraine , used Persian and Persian people to talk about the Iranian people and government .
From then on `` Iranian '' and `` Persian '' was applied interchangeably to the population of Iran .
The founding dynasty of the empire , the Achaemenids , and later the Sassanids , were from the southwestern region of Iran , Pars .
The first officially Shia empire , the Safavid dynasty in Iran , advocated the Twelver faith , made Twelver law the law of the land , and supported Twelver scholarship .
Persian culture therefore reflects the collective mindset of the Persian people throughout time , whether Persian is meant in an ethnic sense or a culturally inclusive pan-ethnic sense .
Center-Periphery model is a model of cultural influence composed of a dominant center with greater power and economic resources and often some form of overt control and a subordinate periphery ; in this cultural model , the periphery strives to incorporate prestige via adoptation of cultural and value systems of the center , a process termed `` emulation '' while the center is an engine for generation of new cultural standards .
The cultural interaction between the Achaemenid center and the periphery was through a system of states , called the `` satrapy '' .
The contact was most prominent through the Ionian coast , where the periphery regions of both entities overlaped in what can be thought of as an `` interaction zone '' between Persian and Greek influences .
For instance , the use of parasol fan or flywhisk-bearing was a marker of status in Persia , and this was adopted by the Greeks , mainly women , who depicted their aristocratic status by the use of fans , whereas use of statues as a symbol of power and wealth by the Greek men influenced the Persian monarchs ' use of statue in their reliefes for depiction of wealth and power .
Persian people Old Persian word `` navarYznah '' is composed of `` nava '' meaning new and `` rYzanh '' meaning day or daylight to also indicate a new day or a new light .
Byzantine invasion of the Sassanids and subsequent defeat of Khusrau II is a defining moment for the Sasanids , as Persian people destabilized the royal structure , leading to inability to mount an effective defence against the Arab invasion of Persia .
For instance the presence of vast amount of Persian literature produced in India after Islam , led to the eventual creation and modernization of the language of Urdu .
Similarly , Persian influences , carried by the Islamic wave of conquest , went as far east as Indonesia , where Indonesians took on adopting Persian names and customs .
There are a few scholars who consider that Zoroastrianism , `` began the whole Western or Judaeo-Christian-Muslim concept of progressive time '' .
Achaemenid architectural heritage , beginning with the expansion of the empire around 550 BCE , was a period of artistic growth that left an extraordinary architectural legacy ranging from Cyrus the Great 's solemn tomb in Pasargadae to the splendid structures of the opulent city of Persepolis , and such historical sites as Naqsh-e Rustam .
Certain ancient architectural sites have existed to date and some have even been in use till recent times ; one such example is the Arg-é Bam a massive structure at constructed on the Silk road , in Bam around 500 BCE and was in use till 1850 CE Bam is now a UNESCO World Heritage Site .
Modern contemporary architectural projects by Persians include the mausoleum of Ferdowsi in Tus erected by Reza Shah , King Memorial Tower ( Azadi Tower ) erected in 1971 in Tehran by a Persian architect , projects such as the Dariush Grand Hotel , a hundred and twenty five million dollar hotel complex created in the Achaemenid architectural style , located on Kish Island , in the Persian Gulf , and Milad Tower , Iran 's tallest telecommunication tower , and world 's fourth tallest tower ( as of 2008 ) , standing 435 meters high , hosting a rotating restaurant , TV and radio stations as well as traffic control centers , to name a few .
`` The Great King Cyrus the Great ... in all the districts he resides in and visits , takes care that there are ` paradises ' as they Persians call them , full of the good and beautiful things that the soil will produce '' _ Xenophon , The Oeconomicus , 339 B.C.E.
Persian gardens utilized the Achaemenid knowledge of water technologies as Persian people utilized aqueducts , earliest historically recorded gravity-fed water rills , and basins arranged in a geometric system .
The enclosure of this symmetrically arranged planting and irrigation , by an infrastructure such as a building or a palace created the impression of `` paradise '' .
Xenophon would translate the Old Persian term Pairidaeza ( a combination of pairi meaning `` around '' and daeza meaning `` wall '' ) into the Greek term Paradeisos .
The music of Persia goes back to the days of Barbad in the royal Sassanid courts , and even earlier .
In terms of comparison between the basic style of the Persian music , employment of smaller intervals , and the transition from one key to another by progressions that are minute compared to their European counterparts , is what gives Persian music Persian people unique quality .
World 's oldest existing carpet , Pazyryk carpet , a pile-carpet dating back to 400-300 BCE discovered in 1949 , depicts clear elements of Assyrian and Achaemenid design , including stylistic references to stone slab designs found in the palaces of the Persian empire .
Ruy González de Clavijo a Castilian traveller , ( around 1400 CE ) described the wonderful textile work he observed in Samarqand , court of Timur remarking that everywhere was covered with carpetry and reed matting .
I have no refuge in the world other than thy threshold There is no place of protection for my head other than this porchway The work of the slave of the holy place Maqsud Kashani in the year 946 ( 1540 C.E. ) German architect and art enthusiast , Gottfried Semper called rugs `` the original means of separating space '' .
Persians ' artistic expression can be seen as far back as the Achaemenid period as numerous statues depicting various important figures , usually of political significance as well as religious , such as the Immortals ( elite troops of the emperor ) are indicative of the influence of Mesopotamia and ancient Babylon .
Atossa was the daughter of Cyrus the Great , and Cassandane , and the queen consort of Darius the Great ; she would play a critical role in solidifying Darius 's legitamcy to the throne after Persian people overthrow of the magus impersonator of Bardiya .
Scheherazade , though fictional , is an important figure of female wit and intelligence , while the beauty of Mumtaz Mahal inspired the building of the Taj Mahal Persian people and Táhirih , the poet , had a great influence on modern women 's movements throughout the Middle East .
Substantive law , which refers to the actual claims and defenses whose validity is tested through the procedures of procedural law , is different from procedural law .
The standardization for the means by which cases are brought , parties are informed , evidence is presented , and facts are determined is intended to maximize the fairness of any proceeding .
Procedural systems are constantly torn between arguments that judges should have greater discretion in order to avoid the rigidity of Procedural law , and arguments that judges should have less discretion in order to avoid an outcome based more on the personal preferences of the judge than on the law or the facts .
`` Procedural law '' in contrast to `` substantive law '' is a concept available in various legal systems and languages .
In Chinese , Procedural law and `` sustantive law '' are represented by these characters : '' 程序法 '' and '' 实体法 '' .
Even the scientific handling of law , which developed during medieval times in the new universities in Italy ( in particular in Bologna , Mantua ) , did not come to a full and clear separation .
In Germany the unity of procedure and substance in the actio definitely was brought to an end with the codification of the Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch ( BGB ) which came into force on January 1 , 1900 .
The first and third lines of the last stanza are the second and fourth of the ; the first line of the poem is the last line of the final stanza , and the third line of the first stanza is the second of the final .
The stanzas rhyme abba rather than the expected abab , and the last line , which is supposed to be the same as the first , is original .
American poets such as John Ashbery , Marilyn Hacker , Donald Justice ( `` Pantoum of the Great Depression '' ) , Carolyn Kizer , and David Trinidad have done work in this form .
Gerbert now became the teacher of Otto III , and Pope Gregory V ( 996 -- 999 ) , Otto III 's cousin , appointed Pope Sylvester II Archbishop of Ravenna in 998 .
On this horizon line , placed so as to demonstrate practically and plausibly ... the rising and setting of the stars , Pope Sylvester II traced natural outlines to give a greater appearance of reality to the constellations ... Pope Sylvester II divided a sphere in half , letting the tube represent the diameter , the one end representing the north pole , the other the south pole .
Pope Sylvester II put six of these thirty parts of the half-sphere between the pole and the first circle ; five between the first and the second ; from the second to the third , four ; from the third to the fourth , four again ; five from the fourth to the fifth ; and from the fifth to the pole , six .
Gerbert instructed Constantine that , if doubtful of the position of the pole star , Pope Sylvester II should fix the sighting tube of the armillary sphere into position to view the star Pope Sylvester II suspected was it , and if the star did not move out of sight , it was thus the pole star .
This `` robotic '' head would answer Pope Sylvester II questions with `` yes '' or `` no '' .
Pope Sylvester II was also reputed to have had a pact with a female demon called Meridiana , who had appeared after Pope Sylvester II had been rejected by Pope Sylvester II earthly love , and with whose help Pope Sylvester II managed to ascend to the papal throne ( another legend tells that Pope Sylvester II won the papacy playing dice with the Devil ) .
According to the legend , Meridiana ( or the bronze head ) told Gerbert that if Pope Sylvester II should ever read a mass in Jerusalem , the Devil would come for Pope Sylvester II .
The definition of pottery used by ASTM is `` all fired ceramic wares that contain clay when formed , except technical , structural , and refractory products '' .
There are several materials that are referred to as clay.Plasticity , the malleability of the body ; the extent to which Pottery will absorb water after firing ; and shrinkage , the extent of reduction in size of a body as water is removed .
The granulated clay is prepared by spray-drying to produce a fine and free-flowing material having a moisture content of between about 5 and 6 per cent .
Granulate pressing , also known as dust pressing , is widely used in the manufacture of ceramic tiles and , increasingly , of plates .
Injection moulding : is a shape-forming process adapted for the tableware industry from the method long established for the forming of thermoplastic and some metal components .
The feed to the mould die is a mix of approximately 50 to 60 percent unfired body in powder form , together with 40 to 50 percent organic additives composed of binders , lubricants and plasticisers .
The high pressure leads to much faster casting rates and , hence , faster production cycles .
To prevent glazed wares sticking to kiln furniture during firing , either a small part of the object being fired ( for example , the foot ) is left unglazed or , alternatively , special refractory `` spurs '' are used as supports .
In all cases , the object of firing is to permanently harden the wares and the firing regime must be appropriate to the materials used to make them .
In a Western adaptation of traditional Japanese Raku ware firing , wares are removed from the kiln while hot and smothered in ashes , paper or woodchips which produces a distinctive carbonised appearance .
The potter 's wheel was invented in Mesopotamia sometime between 6,000 and 4,000 BCE ( Ubaid period ) and revolutionised pottery production .
Pottery was first practised , to a limited extent , in China as early as the T'ang dynasty Transition to kilns : The earliest intentionally constructed were pit-kilns or trench-kilns -- holes dug in the ground and covered with fuel .
The development of ceramic glaze which makes Pottery impermeable makes Pottery a popular and practical form of pottery making .
Porcelain was also made in Korea and Japan around the 16th and 17th century AD after suitable kaolin was located in those countries .
The secret of making such porcelain was sought in the Islamic world and later in Europe when examples were imported from the East .
Trade between China and Islam took place via the system of trading posts over the lengthy Silk Road .
China imported the minerals for Cobalt blue from the Islamic ruled Persia to decorate their blue and white porcelain , which they then exported to the Islamic world .
The other major phase came during the Umayyad Caliphate of Islam , Egypt was a link between early center of Islam in the Near East and Iberia which led to the impressive style of pottery .
Since then , ceramic manufacturing , mass-produced pottery , and studio pottery have flourished in Australia .
Trace-element analysis , mostly by neutron activation , allows the sources of clay to be accurately identified and the thermoluminescence test can be used to provide an estimate of the date of last firing .
Although many of the environmental effects of pottery production have existed for millennia , some of these have been amplified with modern technology and scales of production .
The English city of Stoke-on-Trent is widely known as The Potteries because of the large number of pottery factories or , colloquially , Pot Banks .
Pacta sunt servanda ( Latin for `` agreements must be kept '' ) , is a brocard , a basic principle of civil law and of international law .
Paul Laurence Dunbar ( June 27 , 1872 -- February 9 , 1906 ) was an African-American poet , novelist , and playwright of the late 19th and early 20th centuries .
Though Paul Laurence Dunbar saw `` honest thinking and true feeling '' in Dunbar 's traditional poems , Paul Laurence Dunbar particularly praised Dunbar 's dialect poems .
Paul Laurence Dunbar work appeared in Harper 's Weekly , the Saturday Evening Post , the Denver Post , Current Literature and a number of other publications .
Pop music ( a term that originally derives from an abbreviation of `` popular '' ) is a genre of popular music which originated in Pop music modern form in the 1950s , deriving from rock and roll .
Such include generally short-to-medium length songs , written in a basic format ( often the verse-chorus structure ) , as well as the common employment of repeated choruses , melodic tunes , and catchy hooks .
So-called `` pure pop '' music , such as power pop , features all these elements , using electric guitars , drums and bass for instrumentation ; in the case of such music , the main goal is usually that of being pleasurable to listen to , rather than having much artistic depth .
According to Grove Music Online , the term `` pop music '' `` originated in Britain in the mid-1950s as a description for rock and roll and the new youth music styles that Pop music influenced ... '' .
By the early 1980s , the promotion of Pop music had been greatly affected by the rise of Music Television channels like MTV , which `` favoured those artists such as Michael Jackson and Madonna who had a strong visual appeal '' .
The lyrics of modern pop songs typically focus on simple themes -- often love and romantic relationships -- although there are notable exceptions .
Wertico 's playing has been compared to that of an Impressionist painter ; Paul Wertico has also been described as `` an inspired madman '' , `` a restless innovator '' , `` a true legend of jazz drums '' , `` a master of drumming insanity '' and `` a genius of the sticks '' .
In 2004 Wertico was honored as a Chicagoan of the Year by the Chicago Tribune ; Paul Wertico has been recommended by that newspaper and the Chicago Sun-Times for album-of-the-year awards .
The trio 's 2000 studio recording , entitled `` Do n't Be Scared Anymore '' , received reviews of `` This album is like the soundtrack to the world 's coolest vacation '' from All About Jazz and `` Jazz-rock in the truest sense '' from Allmusic .
` StereoNucleosis ' is one of the most intelligent , creative and alluring percussion recordings of the past decade .
; a double-guitar/double-drum three-CD set ( with Derek Bailey , Pat Metheny and Bendian ) entitled `` The Sign Of 4 '' ; and two piano/bass/drums trio CDs ( with Laurence Hobgood and Brian Torff ) entitled `` Union '' and `` State Of The Union '' .
In 1950 the factory relocated to Zuffenhausen , Germany , and general production of the 356 continued until April 1965 , well after the replacement model 911 made its autumn 1963 debut .
While the 356 's body was an original design by Porsche employee Erwin Komenda , Porsche 356 mechanicals ( including engine , suspension and chassis ) were derived from the Volkswagen .
Porsche 356 , close to stock or highly modified , has enjoyed much success in rallying , the 24 hours of Le Mans , the 1000 km Buenos Aires , the Mille Miglia , the Targa Florio , the Carrera Panamericana , as well as many other important car racing events .
Lasorda was not the first to question Martínez 's stature and durability ; in the minor leagues , the then-135-pound pitcher was threatened with a $ 500 fine if Pedro Martínez was caught running .
Only three pitchers have had as many as seven such starts in a row , and one of those was Martínez Pedro Martínez , in April -- May 1999 .
Pedro Martínez was named the AL Pitcher of the Month in April , May , June , and September 1999 , an unprecedented feat for a single season .
It was Pedro Martínez sixth league WHIP title , and the fifth time that Pedro Martínez led the Major Leagues in the category .
At the end of May , Pedro Martínez was 5 -- 1 with a 2.50 ERA , with 88 strikeouts and 17 walks and 44 hits allowed in 76 innings ; Martínez 's record was worse than it could have been , with the Mets bullpen costing Pedro Martínez two victories .
`` It 's getting better , and progress is above all what is hoped for '' , Pedro Martínez told the Associated Press .
Williams started towards first base before charging the mound and knocking down Pedro Martínez ; in the scrum , Williams was tackled by Boston catcher Jason Varitek .
In the testy Game 3 of the ALCS , after allowing single runs in the 2nd , 3rd , and 4th innings , Pedro Martínez hit Yankees right fielder Karim Garcia near the shoulders with a pitch , sparking a shouting match between Pedro Martínez and the New York bench .
Using it in combination with Pedro Martínez devastating changeup and occasionally mixing in Pedro Martínez curveball , Pedro Martínez was as dominant a pitcher as the game has ever seen .
Alba expanded , absorbing the Brythonic kingdom of Strathclyde and Bernician Lothian , and by the 11th century the Pictish identity had been subsumed into the `` Scots '' amalgamation of peoples .
The Angles of Bernicia overwhelmed the adjacent British kingdoms , and the neighbouring Anglian kingdom of Deira ( Bernicia and Deira later being called Northumbria ) was to become the most powerful kingdom in Britain .
The king of Fortriu Eógan mac Óengusa , the king of Dál Riata Áed mac Boanta , and many more , were killed in a major battle against the Vikings in 839 .
This was previously thought to lie in the area around Perth and the southern Strathearn , whereas recent work has convinced those working in the field that Moray ( a name referring to a very much larger area in the High Middle Ages than the county of Moray ) , was the core of Fortriu .
The kings of Picts when Bede was writing were Bridei and Nechtan , sons of Der Ilei , who indeed claimed the throne through their mother Der Ilei , daughter of an earlier Pictish king .
Even in the Late Middle Ages , the line between traders and pirates was unclear , so that Pictish pirates were probably merchants on other occasions .
Naturalistic depictions of Pictish nobles , hunters and warriors , male and female , without obvious tattoos , are found on monumental stones .
The well known Pictish symbols found on stones , and elsewhere , are obscure in meaning .
It appears that these are associated with Pictish kings , which argues for a considerable degree of royal patronage and control of the church .
Portmahomack in particular has been the subject of recent excavation and research , published by Martin Carver .
Several of the Christian images carved on various stones , such as David the harpist , David and the lion , or scenes of St Paul and St Anthony meeting in the desert , have been influenced by the Insular manuscript tradition .
The largest hoard of early Pictish metalwork was found in 1819 at Norrie 's Law in Fife , but unfortunately much was dispersed and melted down ( Scottish law on treasure finds has always been unhelpful to preservation ) .
A pre-Gaelic interpretation of the name as Athfocla meaning ` north pass ' or ` north way ' , as in gateway to Moray , suggests that the Gaelic Athfotla may be a Gaelic misreading of the minuscule c for t.
Medieval Welsh tradition credited the founding of Gwynedd to Picts and traced their principal royal families the Houses of Aberffraw and Dinefwr to Cunedda Wledig , said to have invaded northern Wales from Lothian .
Neil Marshall 's 2010 film Centurion features a conflict between a band of Picts and the Roman Ninth Legion .
Arthur Ransome , celebrated author of the classic Swallows and Amazons series of books , titled the eleventh book of the series `` Picts and the Martyrs '' .
In mathematics , a permutation group is a group G whose elements are permutations of a given set M , and whose group operation is the composition of permutations in G ( which are thought of as bijective functions from the set M to Permutation group ) ; the relationship is often written as ( G , M ) .
The application of a permutation group to the elements being permuted is called Permutation group group action ; Permutation group has applications in both the study of symmetries , combinatorics and many other branches of mathematics , physics and chemistry .
A general property of finite groups implies that a finite nonempty subset of a symmetric group is again a group if and only if Permutation group is closed under the group operation .
Permutation group is a group G whose elements are permutations of a given set M , and whose group operation is the composition of permutations in G ( which are thought of as bijective functions from the set M to itself ) .
Tyrosine kinases recruited to a receptor following hormone binding are receptor-associated tyrosine kinases and are involved in a number of signaling cascades , in particular those involved in cytokine signaling ( but also others , including growth hormone ) .
Drugs that inhibit specific kinases are being developed to treat several diseases , and some are currently in clinical use , including Gleevec ( imatinib ) and Iressa ( gefitinib ) .
Although Pisa is known worldwide for Pisa leaning tower ( the bell tower of the city 's cathedral ) , the city of over 88,332 residents ( around 200,000 with the metropolitan area ) contains more than 20 other historic churches , several palaces and various bridges across the River Arno .
Pisa lies at the junction of two rivers , the Arno and the Serchio , which form a laguna at the Tyrrhenian Sea .
The Virgilian commentator Servius wrote that the Teuti , or Pelops , the king of the Pisaeans , founded the town thirteen centuries before the start of the common era .
Pisa and the other took advantage of the crusade to establish trading posts and colonies in the Eastern coastal cities of the Levant .
Even though the Almoravides soon reconquered the island , the booty taken helped the Pisans in their magnificent programme of buildings , especially the cathedral and Pisa gained a role of pre-eminence in the Western Mediterranean .
The war began presumably in 1165 on the Rhône , when an attack on a convoy , directed to some Pisan trade centres on the river , by the Genoese and their ally , the count of Toulouse failed .
While the Leaning Tower is the most famous image of the city , Pisa is one of many works of art and architecture in the city 's , also known , since 20th century , as ( Square of Miracles ) , to the north of the old town center .
Professor Thomas Nicely , a professor of mathematics at Lynchburg College , had written code to enumerate primes , twin primes , prime triplets , and prime quadruplets .
However , although most independent estimates found the bug to be of little importance and would have negligible effect on most users , Pentium FDIV bug caused a great public outcry .
A 1995 article in Science describes the value of number theory problems in discovering computer bugs and gives the mathematical background and history of Brun 's constant , the problem Nicely was working on when he discovered Pentium FDIV bug .
111.2 Percussion instrument idiophones , includes many percussion instruments played with Percussion instrument or by a percussion mallet , such as the hang , gongs and the xylophone , but not drums and only some cymbals .
21 Struck drums , includes most types of drum , such as the timpani and snare drum .
The human voice was probably the first musical instrument , but percussion instruments such as hands and feet , then sticks and rocks , were in widespread use long before recorded musical history .
In jazz and other popular music ensembles , the pianist , bassist , drummer and sometimes the guitarist are referred to as the rhythm section .
In military marching bands and pipes and drums , Percussion instrument is the beat of the bass drum that keeps the soldiers in step and at a regular speed , and it is the snare that provides that crisp , decisive air to the tune of a regiment .
In more recent popular music culture , it is almost impossible to name three or four rock , hip-hop , rap , funk or even soul charts or songs that do not have some sort of Percussion instrument beat keeping the tune in time .
Music for pitched percussion instruments can be notated on a staff with the same treble and bass clefs used by many non-percussive instruments .
Music for Percussion instrument instruments without a definite pitch can be notated with a specialist rhythm or percussion-clef ; More often a treble clef ( or sometimes a bass clef ) is substituted for rhythm clef .
Most instruments known as `` aerophones '' are defined as wind instruments such as a saxophone whereby sound is produced by a person or thing blowing air through the object .
Other instruments ( such as crash cymbals and snare drums ) produce sounds with such complex overtones and a wide range of prominent frequencies that no pitch is discernible .
In fact many traditionally unpitched instruments , such as triangles and even cymbals , have also been produced as tuned sets .
Although it is difficult to define what is `` common knowledge '' , there are instruments in use by Percussion instrument and composers in contemporary music which are certainly not considered by most to be musical instruments of any kind .
Therefore , it is worthwhile to try to make distinction between instruments based on Percussion instrument acceptance or consideration by a general audience .
( Sometimes referred to as `` found '' instruments or as custom percussion ) John Cage , Harry Partch , Edgard Varèse , and Peter Schickele , all noted composers , created entire pieces of music using unconventional instruments .
In one episode Lynda says she 's going to `` butter him up '' , and , when asked while on a date in a restaurant if he was staying at the hotel , Colin replies `` I should n't think so : Press Gang 's only the first date '' .
Jeff Evans also comments that the series was filmed cinematically , dabbling in `` dream sequences , flashbacks , fantasies and , on one occasion , a Moonlighting-esque parody of the film Press Gang 's a Wonderful Life '' .
David Jefford ( Alex Crockett ) was resurrected from 1989 's `` Monday -- Tuesday '' to appear in the final episode `` There Are Crocodiles '' , while the same actress ( Aisling Flitton ) who played a wrong number in `` Love and the Junior Gazette '' was invited to reprise her character for the third season episode `` Chance is a Fine Thing '' .
This enabled Press Gang to be shot on 16 mm film , rather than the regular , less expensive videotape , and on location , making Press Gang very expensive compared with most children 's television .
Episodes that ended on a particularly sombre tone , such as `` Monday-Tuesday '' and `` Yesterday 's News '' , used only appropriately sombre music to accompany the end credits .
Lee Ross was only able to commit to the first six episodes of the 12-episode season three and four filming block because he was expecting a film role .
Colin Mathews ( Paul Reynolds ) is the Thatcherite in charge of the paper 's finances and advertising .
Others , such as Popmatters , have also commented upon how `` the show is renowned ... for doing something kid television at the time did n't do ( and , arguably , still does n't ) : Press Gang refused to treat Press Gang audience like children '' .
Comedian Richard Herring recalls watching the show as a recent graduate , commenting that it `` was subtle , sophisticated and much too good for kids '' .
His 1997 sitcom Chalk refers to a neighbouring school as Norbridge High , run by Mr Sullivan , and to the characters Dr Clipstone ( `` UneXpected '' ) , Malcolm Bullivant ( `` Something Terrible '' ) and David Jefford ( `` Monday-Tuesday '' / `` There are Crocodiles '' ) , a pupil who Mr Slatt ( David Bamber ) reprimands for masturbating .
The name `` Talwinning '' appears as the name of streets in `` A Quarter to Midnight '' and Joking Apart , and as the surname of the protagonist in `` Dying Live '' , an episode of Murder Most Horrid written by Moffat , as well the name of a librarian in his Doctor Who prose short story , `` Continuity Errors '' , which was published in the 1996 Virgin Books anthology .
The name `` Inspector Hibbert '' , from `` The Last Word '' , is given to the character played by Nick Stringer in `` Elvis , Jesus and Jack '' , Moffat 's final Murder Most Horrid contribution .
First Edition was based on the first three episodes , with Public Exposure covering `` Interface '' and `` How to Make a Killing '' .
The fourth and final book , The Date , is a novelisation of `` Money , Love and Birdseed '' , `` Love and the Junior Gazette '' and `` At Last a Dragon '' .
Four episodes of the second season DVD features an audio commentary by Julia Sawalha and Steven Moffat , in which the actress claims to remember very little about the show .
In August 1405 , the cardinal seized eleven members of the obstreperous Roman partisans on their return from a conference with the Pope , had them assassinated in Pope Innocent VII own house , and had their bodies thrown from the windows of the hospital of Santo Spirito into the street .
Pope , court and cardinals , with the Migliorati faction , fled towards Viterbo .
Ludovico took the occasion of driving off cattle that were grazing outside the walls , and the Papal party were pursued by furious Romans , losing thirty members , whose bodies were abandoned in the flight , including the Abbot of Perugia , struck down under the eyes of the Pope .
Pope Innocent VIII ( , ; 1432 -- 25 July 1492 ) , born Giovanni Battista Cybo ( or Cibo ) , was the head of the Catholic Church from 29 August 1484 to Pope Innocent VIII death in 1492 .
Giovanni Battista Cybo ( or Cibo ) was born in Genoa of Greek ancestry , the son of Arano Cybo or Cibo ( c. 1375-c .
The influence of Pope Innocent VIII friends procured for Pope Innocent VIII , from Pope Paul II ( 1464 -- 71 ) , the bishopric of Savona , and in 1473 , with the support of Giuliano Della Rovere , later Pope Julius II , Pope Innocent VIII was made cardinal by Pope Sixtus IV , whom Pope Innocent VIII succeeded on 29 August 1484 as Pope Innocent VIII .
Mindful of the origin of Pope Innocent IX success , Innocent IX supported , during Pope Innocent IX two months ' pontificate , the cause of Philip II and the Catholic League against Henry IV of France ( 1589 -- 1610 ) in the civil Wars of Religion ( 1562 -- 1598 ) , where a papal army was in the field .
Pope Innocent X , born Giovanni Battista Pamphilj ( or Pamphili ) , was the head of the Catholic Church from 15 September 1644 to Pope Innocent X death in 1655 .
Urban VIII sent Pope Innocent X to accompany Pope Innocent X nephew , Francesco Barberini , whom Pope Innocent X had accredited as nuncio , first in France and then in Spain , where Pamphilj had the first-hand opportunities to form an intense animosity towards the Barberini .
Pope Innocent X confiscated their property , and on 19 February 1646 , issued a bull ordaining that all cardinals who might leave the Papal States for six months without express papal permission would be deprived of their benefices and eventually of their cardinalate itself .
Henceforth the papal policy towards France became more friendly , and somewhat later the Barberini were rehabilitated when the son of Taddeo Barberini , Maffeo Barberini , married Olimpia Giustiniani , a niece of Pope Innocent X .
A measure of the rivalry between two arriviste papal families , the Barberini and the Pamphilj , can be judged from Guido Reni 's painting of the Archangel Michael , trampling Satan in which the features of the Pamphilj are immediately recognized .
The legend that the high-living patrician painter Guido Reni , whose personal dash was at least as great as Pope Innocent X brilliant drawing and brushwork , had been insulted by rumours circulated , Pope Innocent X thought , by Cardinal Pamphilj , serves to place on the painter 's shoulders the vengeful act that could not have been overlooked -- or discouraged -- by Pope Innocent X Barberini patron .
The word property , in everyday usage , refers to an object ( or objects ) owned by a person -- a car , a book , or a cellphone -- and the relationship the person has to Property law .
James Wilson , U.S. Supreme Court Justice and professor of law at the University of Pennsylvania , in 1790 and 1791 , undertook a survey of the philosophical grounds of American property law .
James Wilson asks whether `` the primary and principal object in the institution of government ... was ... to acquire new rights by human establishment ?
In the opening sentence of `` On the History of Property , '' he states quite clearly : `` Property is the right or lawful power , which a person has to a thing '' .
but according to the Indian property law Property law define the ` Transfer of property ' means an act by which a living person conveys property , in present or in future , to one or more other living persons , or to himself and one or more other living persons ; and `` to transfer property '' is to perform such act .
In relation to the sale of land , for example , two sets of legal relationships exist alongside one another : the contractual right to sue for damages , and the property right exercisable over Property law .
A separate distinction is evident where the rights granted are insufficiently substantial to confer on the nonowner a definable interest or right in the thing .
The basic distinction in common law systems is between real property ( land ) and personal property ( chattels ) .
Before the mid-19th century , the principles governing the transfer of real property and personal property on an intestacy were quite different .
The general principle is that a person in possession of land or goods , even as a wrongdoer , is entitled to take action against anyone interfering with the possession unless the person interfering is able to demonstrate a superior right to do so .
Leaseholds , for example , were mainly granted for agriculture until the late eighteenth century and early nineteenth century , when the growth of cities made the leasehold an important form of landholding in urban areas .
The concept of Plea is one of the major differences between criminal procedure under common law and procedure under the civil law system .
`` Voluntary '' has been described as `` an elusive term which has come to mean not induced by ` improper ' inducements , such as bribing or physical violence , but not including the inducements normally associated with charge and sentence bargaining ( except for inducements involving ` overcharging ' by prosecutors ) '' .
`` Intelligent '' has been described as `` also an elusive term , meaning that the defendant knows his rights , the nature of the charge to which he is pleading , and the consequences of his plea '' .
When a plea agreement has been made , the judge 's factual basis inquiry is usually perfunctory , and the standard for finding that Plea is factually based is very low .
After completing Pope Innocent XI studies in grammar and letters , the 15-year old Benedetto moved to Genoa to take part in the family business as an apprentice .
This led to securing the offices of protonotary apostolic , president of the apostolic chamber , commissary of the Marco di Roma , and governor of Macerata ; on 6 March 1645 , Pope Innocent X ( 1644 -- 55 ) made Pope Innocent XI Cardinal-Deacon with the deaconry of Santi Cosma e Damiano .
Pope Innocent XI closed all of the theaters in Rome ( considered to be centers of vice and immorality ) and famously brought a temporary halt to the flourishing traditions of Roman opera .
Pope Innocent XI was an enthusiastic initiator of the Holy League which brought together the German Estates and King John III of Poland who in 1683 hastened to the relief of Vienna which was being besieged by the Turks .
The pontificate of Innocent was marked by the struggle between the absolutism and hegemonic intentions of Louis XIV , and the primacy of the Catholic Church .
All the efforts of Pope Innocent XI to induce Louis XIV to respect the rights and primacy of the Church proved useless .
The tension between the Pope and the King of France increased by Pope Innocent XI procedure in filling the vacant archiepiscopal see of Cologne .
The decision , therefore , fell to Pope Innocent XI , who designated Joseph Clement as Archbishop and Elector of Cologne .
It is , therefore , not surprising that Innocent XI had little sympathy for James , and that Pope Innocent XI did not afford Pope Innocent XI help in Pope Innocent XI hour of trial .
In 2007 , researchers Rita Monaldi and Francesco Sorti , drew popular attention to the claim , that Innocent XI had secretly funded the resistance of the Protestant hero William of Orange to the French King , and even financed Pope Innocent XI overthrow of James II of England .
The monument , which was designed and sculpted by Pierre-Étienne Monnot , features the pope seated upon the throne above a sarcophagus with a base-relief showing the liberation of Vienna from the Turks by John III Sobieski , flanked by two allegorical figures representing Faith and Fortitude .
Pope Innocent XI is an enthusiastic initiator of the Holy League which brought together the German Estates and King John III of Poland who in 1683 hastened to the relief of Vienna which was being besieged by the Turks .
A pantograph ( m Greek roots παντ - ` all , every ' and γραφ - ` to write ' , from their original use for copying writing ) is a mechanical linkage connected in a manner based on parallelograms so that the movement of one pen , in tracing Pantograph , produces identical movements in a second pen .
One advantage of phonograph and gramophone discs over cylinders in the 1890s -- before electronic amplification was available -- was that large numbers of discs could be stamped quickly and cheaply .
This was done as the resulting cylinder was considerably loud and of very high fidelity .
In another application similar to drafting , Pantograph is incorporated into a pantograph engraving machine with a revolving cutter instead of a pen , and a tray at the pointer end to fix precut lettered plates ( referred to as ` copy ' ) , which the pointer follows and thus the cutter , via Pantograph , reproduces the ` copy ' at a ratio to which the pantograph arms have been set .
Linn Boyd Benton invented a pantographic engraving machine for type design , which was capable not only of scaling a single font design pattern to a variety of sizes , but could also condense , extend , and slant the design ( mathematically , these are cases of affine transformation , which is the fundamental geometric operation of most systems of digital typography today , including PostScript ) .
The framework expands in 2 directions ( vertical and horizontal ) from a bundle of connected rods into a self-supporting structure on which a fabric backdrop is hung .
is a 1997 Japanese animated epic historical fantasy film written and directed by Hayao Miyazaki , animated by Studio Ghibli and produced by Toshio Suzuki .
The story concentrates on involvement of the outsider Ashitaka in the struggle between the supernatural guardians of a forest and the humans of the Iron Town who consume Princess Mononoke resources .
Spirotrich typically have prominent oral cilia in the form of a series of polykinetids , called the adoral zone of membranelles , beginning anterior to the oral cavity and running down to the left side of the mouth .
As first defined by Bütschli in 1889 the spirotrichs were one of two orders , together with the now-abandoned holotrichs , and included all ciliates with prominent oral cilia : heterotrichs , hypotrichs , oligotrichs , and peritrichs , although the last were soon separated .
However , because of the fierce competition between the giraffe and rival foragers , those with the shorter necks could only find food at the level rivals were also feeding at .
Today , biologists would say that certain evolutionary traits can be explained by intraspecific competition - competition between members of the same species - distinguishing between competition before or after sexual intercourse .
Bird species often demonstrate intersexual selection , perhaps because - due to Sexual selection lightweight body structures - fights between males may be ineffective or impractical .
In some bird species , both the male and the female contribute a great deal to offspring-care .
Fisher 's runaway process causes a dramatic increase in both the male 's conspicuous feature and in female preference for Sexual selection , until practical , physical constraints halt further exaggeration .
Long-tailed Widowbird offspring of both sexes will inherit both sets of genes , with females expressing their genetic preference for long tails , and males showing off the coveted long tail Sexual selection .
Since Fisher 's initial conceptual model of the ` runaway ' process , Russell Lande and Peter O'Donald have provided detailed mathematical proofs that define the circumstances under which runaway sexual selection can take place .
There are two species : the northern ( M. angustirostris ) and southern elephant seal ( M. leonina ) - the largest carnivore living today .
The agonistic behaviour of the bulls gives rise to a dominance hierarchy , with access to harems and breeding activity being determined by rank .
The dominant bulls or `` harem masters '' establish harems of several dozen females .
The use of sexual ornamentation as a signaling device to create a dominance hierarchy among males , also known as a pecking order , allows struggle to proceed without excessive injury or fatality .
Sexual selection is predominantly when two opposing males are so closely matched , as would be found in males not having established themselves in a dominance hierarchy , that asymmetries can not be found and the confrontation escalates to a point where the asymmetries must be proved by aggressive use of ornamentation .
Sex differences directly related to reproduction and serving no direct purpose in courtship are called primary sexual characteristics .
Differences in secondary sexual characteristics between males and females of a species are referred to as sexual dimorphisms .
The peacock , with Sexual selection elaborate and colorful tail feathers , which the peahen lacks , is often referred to as perhaps the most extraordinary example of a dimorphism .
One recent theory sees evolution as an `` adventure quest '' in which species develop complexity and novelty by acquiring modular capabilities through chance encounters in an evolutionary game .
Bright colorations and showy ornamenations , such as those seen in many male birds , in addition to capturing the eyes of females , also attract the attention of predators .
Another , more recently developed , theory , the Handicap principle of Amotz Zahavi , Russell Lande and W. D. Hamilton , holds that the fact that the male of the species is able to survive until and through the age of reproduction with such a seemingly maladaptive trait is effectively considered by Sexual selection to be a testament to his overall fitness .
In 1990 , Michael Ryan and A.S. Rand , working with the túngara frog , proposed the hypothesis of `` Sensory Exploitation '' , where exaggerated male traits may provide a sensory stimulation that females find hard to resist .
Subsequently the theories of the `` Gravity Hypothesis '' by Jordi Moya-Larano et al. and `` Chase Away '' by Brett Holland and William R. Rice have also been added .
The German anthropologist Ferdinand Fellman argues that the emergence of human self-consciousness is due to an extended sexual selection , termed `` emotional selection '' , bridging the gap between animal sexual behaviour and human erotic love .
Miller ( 2000 ) has proposed that this apparent redundancy is due to individuals using vocabulary to demonstrate their intelligence , and consequently their `` fitness '' , to potential mates .
A later work , The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex dealt with the subject of sexual selection exhaustively , in part because Darwin felt that natural selection alone was unable to account for certain types of apparently non-competitive adaptations , such as the tail of a male peacock .
Wallace argued that the aspects of Sexual selection which were male-male competition , while real , were simply forms of natural selection , and that the notion of `` female choice '' was attributing the ability to judge standards of beauty to animals far too cognitively undeveloped to be capable of aesthetic feeling ( such as beetles ) .
This has been questioned by later scholars as quite a stretch for Wallace , who in this particular instance abandoned his normally strict `` adaptationist '' agenda in asserting that the highly intricate and developed forms such as a peacock 's tail resulted by sheer `` physiological processes '' that were somehow not at all subjected to adaptation .
The sciences of evolutionary psychology , human behavioral ecology , and sociobiology study the influence of sexual selection in humans , though these are often controversial fields .
Joseph Jordania proposed that in explaining brilliant body colors , various morphological additions ( `` ornaments '' ) , wide range of vocalizations and strange display behaviors ( `` antics '' ) in animal species Darwin neglected a very important factor of natural selection -- warning display ( known also as aposematism ) .
( Stanislaw Lem , `` Chance and Order '' , The New Yorker 59 / 30 January 1984 , page 88-98 ) In 1945 , Polish eastern Kresy was annexed into Soviet Ukraine and the family , like many other Poles , was resettled to Kraków where Lem , at Stanisław Lem father 's insistence , took up medical studies at the Jagiellonian University .
In 1951 Stanisław Lem published Stanisław Lem first book , Astronauci ( The Astronauts ) ; it was commissioned as juvenile SF and Lem was forced to include many references to the ` glorious future of communism ' in it .
Between 1956 and 1968 , Stanisław Lem authored 17 books .
Dialogi and Summa Technologiae ( 1964 ) are Stanisław Lem two most famous philosophical texts .
Stanisław Lem best-known novels include Solaris ( 1961 ) , Stanisław Lem Master 's Voice ( Głos pana , 1968 ) , and the late Fiasco ( Fiasko , 1987 ) , expressing most strongly Stanisław Lem major theme of the futility of mankind 's attempts to comprehend the truly alien .
Dick , however , perhaps due to Stanisław Lem illness , believed that Stanisław Lem was a false name used by a composite committee operating on orders of the Communist party to gain control over public opinion , and wrote a letter to the FBI to that effect .
One of Lem 's major recurring themes , beginning from Stanisław Lem very first novel , The Man from Mars , was the impossibility of communication between humans and profoundly alien civilizations , which may have no common ground with human intelligence .
Satur meant `` full , '' but the juxtaposition with lanx shifted the meaning to `` miscellany or medley '' : the expression lanx satura literally means `` a full dish of various kinds of fruits '' .
Institutions like the ritual clowns , by giving expression to the antisocial tendencies , represent a safety valve which reestablishes equilibrium and health in the collective imaginary , which are jeopardized by the repressive aspects of society .
A typical example is the Soviet Union where the dissidents , such as Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn and Andrei Sakharov were under strong pressure from the government .
Juvenalian satire , named after the Roman satirist Juvenal ( late 1st century -- early 2nd century CE ) , is more contemptuous and abrasive than the Horatian .
Nobel laureate Satire playwright Dario Fo pointed out the difference between satire and teasing ( sfottò ) .
Teasing is the reactionary side of the comic , Satire limits Satire to a shallow parody of physical appearance ; the side-effect of teasing is that Satire humanizes and draws sympathy for the powerful individual towards which is directed .
The Satire comparison of individuals or institutions with shit , exposes their `` inherent inertness , corruption and dead-likeness '' .
Another classification by topics , is the distinction between political satire , religious satire and satire of manners .
Comedy roasts , mock festivals , and stand-up comedians in nightclubs and concerts , are the modern forms of ancient Satire rituals .
The terms `` comedy '' and `` satire '' became synonymous after Aristotle 's Poetics was translated into Arabic in the medieval Islamic world , where it was elaborated upon by Islamic philosophers and writers , such as Abu Bischr , his pupil Al-Farabi , Avicenna , and Averroes .
With the advent of the High Middle Ages and the birth of modern vernacular literature in the 12th century , Satire began to be used again , most notably by Chaucer .
Examples are Livre des Manières by ( ~ 1178 ) , and some of Chaucer 's Canterbury Tales .
This was fuelled by the rise of partisan politics , with the formalisation of the Tory and Whig parties -- and also , in 1714 , by the formation of the Scriblerus Club , which included Alexander Pope , Jonathan Swift , John Gay , John Arbuthnot , Robert Harley , Thomas Parnell , and Henry St John , 1st Viscount Bolingbroke .
Satire focused their attention on Martinus Scriblerus , `` an invented learned fool ... whose work they attributed all that was tedious , narrow-minded , and pedantic in contemporary scholarship '' .
John Dryden wrote an influential essay entitled `` A Discourse Concerning the Original and Progress of Satire '' that helped fix the definition of satire in the literary world .
Daniel Defoe pursued a more journalistic type of satire , being famous for his The True-Born Englishman which mocks xenophobic patriotism , and The Shortest-Way with the Dissenters - advocating religious toleration by means of an ironical exaggeration of the highly intolerant attitudes of his time .
In 20th century literature , satire was used by authors such as Aldous Huxley ( 1930s ) and George Orwell ( 1940s ) , which under the inspiration of Zamyatin 's Russian 1921 novel We , made serious and even frightening commentaries on the dangers of the sweeping social changes taking place throughout Europe and United States .
Many social critics of the time , such as Karl Kraus , Dorothy Parker and H. L. Mencken , used satire as their main weapon , and Mencken in particular is noted for having said that `` one horse-laugh is worth ten thousand syllogisms '' in the persuasion of the public to accept a criticism .
As Satire challenged the taboos and conventional wisdom of the time , were ostracized by the mass media establishment as sick comedians .
Other significant influences in 1960s British satire include David Frost , Eleanor Bron and the television program That Was The Week That Was .
Joseph Heller 's most famous work , Catch-22 ( 1961 ) , Satire bureaucracy and the military , and is frequently cited as one of the greatest literary works of the twentieth century .
Colbert 's character is an opinionated and self-righteous commentator who , in his TV interviews , interrupts people , points and wags his finger at them , and `` unwittingly '' uses a number of logical fallacies .
Some critics of Mark Twain see Huckleberry Finn as racist and offensive , missing the point that Satire author clearly intended Satire to be satire ( racism being in fact only one of a number of Mark Twain 's known concerns attacked in Huckleberry Finn ) .
The `` Make a Realistic Wish Foundation '' sketch ( June 2009 ) , which attacked in classical Satire fashion the heartlessness of people who are reluctant to donate to charities , was widely interpreted as an attack on the Make a Wish Foundation , or even the terminally ill children helped by that organisation .
In 1599 , the Archbishop of Canterbury John Whitgift and the Bishop of London Richard Bancroft , whose offices had the function of licensing books for publication in England , issued a decree banning verse satire .
It seems likely that lingering anxiety about the Martin Marprelate controversy , in which the bishops themselves had employed satirists , played a role ; both Thomas Nashe and Gabriel Harvey , two of the key figures in that controversy , suffered a complete ban on all their works .
Criticism of the film was heavy , from claims of Islamophobia and antisemitism ( despite the fact that Baron Cohen is Jewish ) to the massive boycott of the film by the Kazakh government ; the film Satire had been a reaction to a longer quarrel between the government and the comedian .
In 2008 , popular South African cartoonist and satirist Jonathan Shapiro ( who is published under the pen name Zapiro ) came under fire for depicting then-president of the ANC Jacob Zuma in the act of undressing in preparation for the implied rape of ` Lady Justice ' which is held down by Zuma loyalists .
Satire is a genre of literature , and sometimes graphic and performing arts , in which vices , follies , abuses , and shortcomings are held up to ridicule , ideally with the intent of shaming individuals , and society itself , into improvement .
Samuel Butler (poet) ( baptized 14 February 1613 -- 25 September 1680 ) was a poet and satirist .
Samuel Butler (poet) was born in Strensham , Worcestershire , and was the son of a farmer and churchwarden , also named Samuel .
After the Restoration Samuel Butler (poet) became secretary , or steward , to Richard Vaughan , 2nd Earl of Carbery , Lord President of Wales , which entailed living at least a year in Ludlow , Shropshire , until January 1662 while Samuel Butler (poet) was paying craftsmen working on repairing the castle there .
In late 1662 the first part of Hudibras , which Samuel Butler (poet) began writing when lodging at Holborn , London , in 1658 and continued to work on while in Ludlow , was published , and the other two in 1664 and 1678 respectively .
Also , a monument to Samuel Butler (poet) was placed in Westminster Abbey in 1732 by a printer with the surname Barber , and the Lord Mayor of London .
Samuel Butler (poet) was also influenced by satirists such as John Skelton and Paul Scarron 's Virgile travesti ; a satire on classical literature , particularly Virgil .
Samuel Butler (poet) wrote many short biographies , epigrams and verses the earliest surviving from 1644 .
Samuel Butler (poet) is a poet and satirist .
Samuel Butler (poet) is secretary , or steward .
The patent encompassed 14 versions of the fundamental design , split into two categories of seven instruments each and ranging from sopranino to contrabass .
Although the instruments transposed at either F or C have been considered `` orchestral '' , there is no evidence that Sax intended this .
This enables a chromatic scale to be played over two octaves simply by playing the diatonic scale combined with alternately raising and lowering this one digit .
The other ( orchestral ) family patented by Sax , alternating instruments in C and F , has always been marginal , although some manufacturers tried to popularise the soprano in C ( or C soprano saxophone ) , the alto in F ( or mezzo-soprano saxophone ) , and the tenor in C ( or C melody saxophone ) early in the twentieth century .
Most Saxophone , both past and present , are made from brass .
The screw pins that connect the rods to the posts , as well as the needle and leaf springs that cause the keys to return to their rest position after being released , are generally made of blued or stainless steel .
Since 1920 , most saxophones have ` key touches ' ( smooth decorative pieces placed where the fingers touch Saxophone ) made from either plastic or mother of pearl .
Other materials have been tried with varying degrees of success , such as the 1950s Grafton plastic alto saxophone and Saxophone recent successor , the polycarbonate saxophone , VibratoSax There is also the wooden Sawat saxophone created in Thailand on a small scale .
Most saxophonists use reeds made from Arundo donax cane , but since the 20th century some have also been made of fiberglass and other composite materials .
Less common materials that have been used include wood , glass , crystal , porcelain , and even bone .
A number of companies , including Keilwerth , Rampone & Cazzani ( altello model ) , L.A. Sax and Sax Dakota USA , are marketing straight-bore , tipped-bell soprano saxophones as saxellos ( or `` saxello sopranos '' ) .
Two of these variants were championed by jazz musician Rahsaan Roland Kirk , who called his straight Buescher alto a stritch and his modified saxello a manzello ; the latter featured a larger-than-usual bell and modified key work .
Among some saxophonists , Kirk 's terms have taken on a life of their own in that it is believed that these were `` special '' or `` new '' saxophones that might still be available .
The tubax , developed in 1999 by the German instrument maker Benedikt Eppelsheim , plays the same range , and with the same fingering , as the E contrabass saxophone ; Saxophone bore , however , is narrower than that of a contrabass saxophone , making for a more compact instrument with a `` reedier '' tone ( akin to the double-reed contrabass sarrusophone ) .
Although not true Saxophone , inexpensive keyless folk versions of the saxophone made of bamboo ( recalls a Chalumeau ) were developed in the 20th century by instrument makers in Hawaii , Jamaica , Thailand , Indonesia , Ethiopia , and Argentina .
Jamaica 's best known exponent of a similar type of homemade bamboo `` saxophone '' was the mento musician and instrument maker ` Sugar Belly ' ( William Walker ) .
Most , if not all , intermediate and professional saxophones made today are built with F keys , with F included on even student instruments .
Because all Saxophone use the same key arrangement and fingering to produce a given notated pitch , it is not difficult for a competent player to switch among the various sizes when the music has been suitably transposed , and many do so .
This process , referred to as clef substitution , makes Saxophone possible for the baritone to play from parts written for bassoon , tuba , trombone , or string bass .
Closely related to sackbut was the name used in France : sacqueboute and in Spain , where Sackbut was sacabuche .
In Germany , the original word was Posaune , appearing about 1450 and is still used today .
From 1375 the iconography sees trumpets being made with bends , and some in 'S ' shapes .
Around 1400 we see the ` loop ' shaped trumpet appear in paintings and at some point in the 15th century , a single slide was added .
Because the tenor instrument is described as `` Gemeine '' ( common or ordinary ) , this is probably the most widely used trombone .
There is an original instrument made by Georg Nicolaus Oller built in Stockholm in 1639 and housed in the Musikmuseet .
Some original instruments could be disassembled into the constituent straight tubes , bowed tubes , bell flare , and stays , with ferrules at the joints .
Surviving basses in D at A = 466 ( Eb at 440 ) - for example : Ehe , 1612 ( Leipzig ) and Hainlein , c. 1630 ( Nuremberg ) confirm Praetorius ' description .
Musicians of the 16th and 17th centuries benefited from a broader base of skills than the average performer today .
In a non-liturgical setting , an alta capella group ( in which a slide trumpet or trombone often featured ) would involve the tenor playing the main tune in long tones while two others improvised florid counterpart tunes .
`` Cornetts and trombones ... play divisions that are neither scrappy , nor so wild and involved that Sackbut spoil the underlying melody and the composer 's design : but are introduced at such moments and with such vivacity and charm that Sackbut give the music the greatest beauty and spirit '' Bottrigari , Venice 1594 Along with the improvisation , many of these tutors discuss articulation .
Francesco Rognoni in 1620 describes the tonguing as the most important part of producing `` a good and beautiful effect in playing wind instruments , and principally the cornetto '' ( which of course had a very similar role to Sackbut ) .
This is opposed to using `` te che te che , '' which is described as `` harsh , barbarous and displeasing '' .
Music in the middle-ages favours intervals of the 4th and 5th , which is why Pythagorean tuning was used .
Without adjusting the slide , the 1st to 2nd harmonic is a perfect octave , 2nd to 3rd harmonic is a 5th slightly wider than equal temperament and 4th to 5th harmonic is a major 3rd slightly narrower than in equal temperament .
The scores are unclear and composers were embarrassed to point out accidentals Sackbut felt were ` obvious ' to performers .
The term `` bastarda '' describes a technique that made variations on all the different voices of a part song , rather than just the melody or the bass : `` considered illegitimate because Sackbut was not polyphonic '' .
In the 17th century , a considerable repertoire of chamber music using sackbut with various combinations of violins , cornetts and dulcians , often with continuo , appeared .
A `` Sonata a3 in C '' is published by Musica Rara and attributed to Biber , although the authorship is unclear and it is more likely to have been written by Bertali .
The title has been suggested was chosen to try and capture some of Castello 's success .
For instance Vom Himmel kam der Engel Schar is scored for soprano , tenor , SSATB choir , 2 violins , 2 violas , 2 cornetts , 3 trombones , 2 trumpets , timpani , basso continuo , and Lobe den Herrn , meine Seele is for two choirs of SSATB and similar instruments to the previous work .
The lesser known Austrian composer Christoph Strauss , Kapellmeister to the Habsburg Emperor Mathias 1616-1620 , wrote two important collections for trombones , cornetts and voices .
Mozart 's first use of Sackbut was an obligato line in the oratorio Die Schuldigkeit des ersten Gebots ( K35 , 1767 ) Christoph Willibald Gluck includes trombones in five of his operas : Iphigénie en Aulide ( 1774 ) , Orfeo ed Euridice ( 1774 ) , Alceste ( 1776 ) , Iphigénie en Tauride ( 1779 ) and Echo et Narcisse ( 1779 ) , as well as ballet Don Juan ( 1761 ) .
Some chamber music in this period includes trombone in an obligato role with voice , and also as a concerto instrument with string orchestra .
This family of musicians , publishers and instrument manufacturers had a significant impact on the growth of the brass band movement in Britain during the mid - to late-19th century .
Following the release of Sonic the Hedgehog , Yuji Naka grew dissatisfied with Sega of Japan 's policies and so moved to Sega of America to work in the offices of the newly established Sega Technical Institute , headed by Mark Cerny .
The newly established Sonic Team USA was so influenced by their new San Francisco location , that the level designers of Sonic Team , Takashi Iizuka and Eitaro Toyoda , designed some of the levels , such as the City Escape , Mission Street , Radical Highway , Route 101 , and Route 280 levels as references to major San Francisco locations .
In 2000 , Sega-AM9 ( as Sonic Team were later called ) became United Game Artists or ( UGA ) when Sega reorganized Sonic Team studios to become second-party developer .
Sonic Team is a Japanese-American computer and video game developer established in Ōta , Tokyo , Japan in 1990 , originally known as Sega AM8 .
The reason for the initial evolution of sex , and the reason ( s ) Sex has survived to the present , are still matters of debate .
The second alternative view on the evolutionary origin and adaptive significance of sex is that sex existed in early bacteria as the process of natural transformation , a well studied DNA exchange process still in existence in many present day bacterial species ( see Transformation ( genetics ) ) .
( Also see Isogamy and Anisogamy ) Sexual reproduction in eukaryotes is a process whereby organisms form offspring that combine genetic traits from both parents .
Crossing over and fertilization ( the recombining of single sets of chromosomes to make a new diploid ) result in the new organism containing a different set of genetic traits from either parent .
The most basic sexual system is one in which all organisms are hermaphrodites , producing both male and female gametes -- this is true of some animals ( e.g.
Genetic sex-determination usually depends on asymmetrically inherited sex chromosomes which carry genetic features that influence development ; sex may be determined either by the presence of a sex chromosome or by how many the organism has .
In this case diploid individuals are generally female , and haploid individuals ( which develop from unfertilized eggs ) are male .
Other animals , including most insects and many fish , have larger females .
There is some evidence that , in these genera , the dimorphism may be tied to a sex chromosome , or to chemical signalling from females .
For at least a portion of Star life , a star shines due to thermonuclear fusion of hydrogen into helium in Star core , releasing energy that traverses the star 's interior and then radiates into outer space .
The motion of the Sun against the background stars ( and the horizon ) was used to create calendars , which could be used to regulate agricultural practices .
The SN 1054 supernova , which gave birth to the Crab Nebula , was also observed by Chinese and Islamic astronomers .
Among these , the Book of Fixed Stars ( 964 ) was written by the Persian astronomer Abd al-Rahman al-Sufi , who observed a number of stars , star clusters ( including the Omicron Velorum and Brocchi 's Clusters ) and galaxies ( including the Andromeda Galaxy ) .
Detailed observations of many binary star systems were collected by astronomers such as William Struve and S. W. Burnham , allowing the masses of Star to be determined from computation of the orbital elements .
In the Local Supercluster it is possible to see star clusters , and current telescopes could in principle observe faint individual stars in the Local Cluster -- the most distant stars resolved have up to hundred million light years away ( see Cepheids ) .
Twelve of these formations lay along the band of the ecliptic and these became the basis of astrology .
To the Ancient Greeks , some `` stars '' , known as planets ( Greek πλανήτης ( planētēs ) , meaning `` wanderer '' ) , represented various important deities , from which the names of the planets Mercury , Venus , Mars , Jupiter and Saturn were taken .
Low mass stars ( including the Sun ) with a mass above about 0.5 and below about 1.8 -- 2.2 solar masses ( depending on composition ) do enter the AGB , where they develop a degenerate helium core .
The Sun loses 10 − 14 solar masses every year , or about 0.01 % of Star total mass over Star entire lifespan .
The duration that a star spends on the main sequence depends primarily on the amount of fuel Star has to fuse and the rate at which Star fuses that fuel , i.e.
The combination of their slow fuel consumption and relatively large usable fuel supply allows stars about 0.25 times the mass of the Sun to last for about one trillion ( 1012 ) years according to stellar evolution calculations , while the least-massive hydrogen-fusing stars ( 0.08 solar masses ) will last for about 12 trillion years .
In addition to isolated stars , a multi-star system can consist of two or more gravitationally bound stars that orbit each other .
This is particularly true for very massive O and B class stars , where 80 % of Star are believed to be part of multiple-star systems .
The nearest star to the Earth , apart from the Sun , is Proxima Centauri , which is 39.9 trillion kilometres , or 4.2 light-years away .
The most massive stars last an average of a few million years , while stars of minimum mass ( red dwarfs ) burn their fuel very slowly and last tens to hundreds of billions of years .
Typically the portion of heavy elements is measured in terms of the iron content of the stellar atmosphere , as iron is a common element and Star absorption lines are relatively easy to measure .
Smaller bodies are called brown dwarfs , which occupy a poorly defined grey area between stars and gas giants .
The B-class star Achernar , for example , has an equatorial rotation velocity of about 225 km/s or greater , giving it an equatorial diameter that is more than 50 % larger than the distance between the poles .
The energy produced by Star , as a product of nuclear fusion , radiates into space as both electromagnetic radiation and particle radiation .
Surface patches with a lower temperature and luminosity than average are known as starspots .
Intrinsic or absolute magnitude is directly related to Star luminosity and is what the apparent magnitude Star would be if the distance between the Earth and Star were 10 parsecs ( 32.6 light-years ) .
This means that a first magnitude ( +1.00 ) star is about 2.5 times brighter than a second magnitude ( +2.00 ) star , and approximately 100 times brighter than a sixth magnitude ( +6.00 ) star .
The most common of these are types L and T , which classify the coldest low-mass stars and brown dwarfs .
The resulting temperature and pressure at the hydrogen-burning core of a main sequence star are sufficient for nuclear fusion to occur and for sufficient energy to be produced to prevent further collapse of Star .
This can occur , for example , in regions where very high energy fluxes occur , such as near the core or in areas with high opacity as in the outer envelope .
The Terrans provide a middle ground between the other two races , providing units that are versatile and flexible .
Each species is balanced out so that while StarCraft have different strengths , powers , and abilities StarCraft overall strength is the same .
Although the nature of the supply differs between the races -- Terrans use physical supplies held in depots , Protoss use a psionic power nexus and Zerg are regulated by the number of controlling overlord units present -- the supply mechanic works in exactly the same way for each race ( with different side effects for each race ) , allowing players to create new units when there are sufficient resources to sustain them .
Protoss and Zerg building construction is limited to specific locations : Protoss buildings need to be linked to a power grid while almost every Zerg structure must be placed on a carpet of biomass , called `` creep '' , that is produced by certain structures .
The Protoss , by contrast , only require a worker unit to begin the process of transporting a building to the theater of operations via warp , and StarCraft buildings ' shields ( but not StarCraft structure ) are regenerative .
or discs that include Windows Vista label do n't support StarCraft spawn installation .
Just prior to the beginning of StarCraft , in December 2499 , an alien race possessing advanced technology and psionic power , the Protoss , makes first contact with humanity by destroying a Confederate colony world without any prior warning .
In the first segment of StarCraft , the player and Jim Raynor are attempting to control the colony of Mar Sara in the wake of the Zerg attacks on other Terran worlds .
The cerebrate 's death results in StarCraft forces running amok through the Zerg hives , but briefly links the minds of Zeratul and the Zerg Overmind , allowing the Overmind to finally learn the location of the Protoss homeworld Aiur , which the Overmind has been seeking for millennia .
Bill Roper , one of the game 's producers , stated this would be a major departure from the Warcraft approach , comparing StarCraft two equal sides to those of chess and stating that StarCraft would allow players to `` develop very unique strategies based on which species is being played , and will require players to think of different strategies to combat the other two species '' .
Later improvements to StarCraft included pre-rendered sprites and backgrounds , constructed using 3D Studio Max .
In addition , StarCraft utilized high quality music , composed by Blizzard 's resident composers , and professional voice actors were hired .
Development on a Nintendo 64 version , StarCraft 64 , began in 1999 , converted from PC by Mass Media Interactive Entertainment -- a subsidiary of THQ -- and published by Nintendo .
Derek Duke and Glenn Stafford composed the tracks in the menus and the in-game music , while Jason Hayes composed the music used in the cinematic cut scenes .
The first official game soundtrack , StarCraft : Game Music Vol. 1 , was released in 2000 , comprising tracks from both StarCraft and , as well as a sizable portion of remix tracks and music inspired by StarCraft , created by several South Korean disc jockeys .
In addition , StarCrafts pioneering use of three distinct , unique and balanced races over two equal sides was praised by critics , with GameSpot commenting that this helped the game to `` avoid the problem that has plagued every other game in the genre '' .
StarCrafts popularity resulted in Guinness World Records awarding StarCraft four world records , including `` Best Selling PC Strategy Game , '' `` Largest Income in Professional Gaming , '' and `` Largest Audience for a Game Competition '' when 120,000 fans turned out to watch the final of the SKY proleague season 2005 in Busan , South Korea .
StarCraft was part of the US Air Force 's Aerospace Basic Course , used to teach newly active officers about crisis planning under stress and joint service teamwork .
The first novel , Uprising , which was written by Blizzard employee Micky Neilson and published in December 2000 , acts as a prequel to the events of StarCraft .
A number of model kits , made by Academy Hobby Model Kits , were also produced , displaying 1/30 scale versions of the marine and the hydralisk .
StarCraft is part of the US Air Force 's Aerospace Basic Course , used to teach newly active officers about crisis planning under stress and joint service teamwork .
In 1869 , Abdülaziz received visits from Eugénie de Montijo , Empress consort of Napoleon III of France and other foreign monarchs on their way to the opening of the Suez Canal .
Abdülaziz established the first Ottoman railroad network and Sirkeci Train Station in Constantinople , terminus of the Orient Express .
Abdülaziz married fourthly at the Dolmabahçe Palace , Constantinople , on 21 September 1866 to Georgian HH Hayranidil Kadın Efendi ( Kars , 2 November 1846 -- Ortaköy Palace , Constantinople , 26 November 1898 ) , and had two children .
Skepticism or scepticism ( see spelling differences ) is generally any questioning attitude towards knowledge , facts , or opinions/beliefs stated as facts , or doubt regarding claims that are taken for granted elsewhere .
Religious skepticism , on the other hand is `` doubt concerning basic religious principles ( such as immortality , providence , and revelation ) '' .
Modern religious skepticism typically places more emphasis on scientific and historical methods or evidence , with Michael Shermer writing that it is a process for discovering the truth rather than blanket non-acceptance .
In the political arena , one measure of stagflation , termed the Misery Index ( derived by the simple addition of the inflation rate to the unemployment rate ) , was used to swing presidential elections in the United States in 1976 and 1980 .
As early as 17 November 1965 , Iain Macleod , the spokesman on economic issues for the United Kingdom 's Conservative Party , warned of the gravity of the UK economic situation in the House of Commons : `` We now have the worst of both worlds -- not just inflation on the one side or stagnation on the other , but both of them together .
Policy makers also made `` inaccurate estimates of the degree of excess demand in the economy , contributed significantly to the outbreak of inflation in the United Kingdom in the 1960s and 1970s .
Up to the 1960s many Keynesian economists ignored the possibility of stagflation , because historical experience suggested that high unemployment was typically associated with low inflation , and vice versa ( this relationship is called the Phillips curve ) .
The explanation for the shift of the Phillips curve was initially provided by the monetarist economist Milton Friedman , and also by Edmund Phelps .
Both argued that when workers and firms begin to expect more inflation , the Phillips curve shifts up ( meaning that more inflation occurs at any given level of unemployment ) .
The way this plays out is that after supply shock occurs , the economy will first try to maintain momentum -- that is , consumers and businesses will begin paying higher prices in order to maintain their level of demand .
Both events , combined with the overall energy shortage that characterised the 1970s , resulted in actual or relative scarcity of raw materials .
According to Blanchard ( 2009 ) , these adverse events were one of two components of stagflation ; the other was `` ideas '' , which Robert Lucas ( famous for the Lucas Supply Curve ) , Thomas Sargent , and Robert Barro were cited as expressing as `` wildly incorrect '' and `` fundamentally flawed '' predictions of Keynesian economics which , they said , left stagflation to be explained by `` contemporary students of the business cycle '' .
Neoclassical explanations of stagnation ( low growth and high unemployment ) include inefficient government regulations or high benefits for the unemployed that give people less incentive to look for jobs .
Keynes explicitly pointed out the relationship between governments printing money and inflation .
The various belligerent Governments , unable , or too timid or too short-sighted to secure from loans or taxes the resources Stagflation required , have printed notes for the balance '' .
`` The presumption of a spurious value for the currency , by the force of law expressed in the regulation of prices , contains in Stagflation , however , the seeds of final economic decay , and soon dries up the sources of ultimate supply .
`` In Germany the total expenditure of the Empire , the Federal States , and the Communes in 1919 -- 20 is estimated at 25 milliards of marks , of which not above 10 milliards are covered by previously existing taxation .
While most economists believe that changes in money supply can have some real effects in the short run , neoclassical and neo-Keynesian economists tend to agree that there are no long-run effects from changing the money supply .
When mergers and acquisitions are no longer politically feasible ( governments clamp down with anti-monopoly rules ) , stagflation is used as an alternative to have higher relative profit than the competition .
Supply-side economists asserted that the contraction component of stagflation resulted from an inflation-induced rise in real tax rates ( see bracket creep ) Adherents to the Austrian School maintain that creation of new money ex nihilo benefits the creators and early recipients of the new money relative to late recipients .
In mathematical logic , a logical system has the soundness property if and only if Soundness inference rules prove only formulas that are valid with respect to Soundness semantics .
Soundness of a deductive system is the property that any sentence that is provable in that deductive system is also true on all interpretations or structures of the semantic theory for the language upon which that theory is based .
A symbol in a syllabary , called a syllabogram , typically represents an ( optional ) consonant sound ( simple onset ) followed by a vowel sound ( nucleus ) -- that is , a CV or V syllable -- but other phonographic mappings such as CVC and CV-tone are also found in Syllabary .
Languages that use syllabic writing include Mycenaean Greek ( Linear B ) , the North American language Cherokee , the African language Vai , the English-based creole Ndyuka written with the Afaka script , Yi language and formerly Nü Shu for the language of the Yao people in China .
The languages of South Asia and Southeast Asia , as well as the Ethiopian languages , have a type of alphabet called an abugida or alphasyllabary .
In these scripts , unlike in pure syllabaries , syllables starting with the same consonant are expressed with characters that are based on the same sign , and generally each character representing a syllable consists of several elements which designate the individual sounds of that syllable .
For example , in Devanagari , an abugida , the same characters for ` ke ' , ` ka ' and ` ko ' are के , का and को respectively , with क indicating their common `` k '' sound .
This cycle of speeding up and then locking in continues throughout the piece ; the cycle comes full circle three times , the second and third cycles using shorter versions of the initial figure .
Piano Phase and Violin Phase both premiered in a series of concerts given in New York art galleries .
Steve Reich and Musicians , which was to be the sole ensemble to interpret Steve Reich works for many years , still remains active with many of its original members .
It is based on a cycle of eleven chords introduced at the beginning ( called `` Pulses '' ) , followed by a small section of music based on each chord ( `` Sections I-XI '' ) , and finally a return to the original cycle ( `` Pulses '' ) .
The increased number of performers resulted in more scope for psychoacoustic effects , which fascinated Reich , and Steve Reich noted that Steve Reich would like to `` explore this idea further '' .
Reich explored these ideas further in Steve Reich frequently recorded pieces Music for a Large Ensemble ( 1978 ) and Octet ( 1979 ) .
The work , for percussion , voices , and strings , is a musical documentary , named for the Cave of Machpelah in Hebron , where a mosque now stands and Abraham is said to have been buried .
John Coltrane 's style , which Reich has described as `` playing a lot of notes to very few harmonies '' , also had an impact ; of particular interest was the album Africa/Brass , which `` was basically a half-an-hour in F. '' Reich 's influence from jazz includes its roots , also , from the West African music Steve Reich studied in Steve Reich readings and visit to Ghana .
The programme also included Double Sextet ( for ensemble with 12 players ) , Clapping Music , for two people and four hands ( featuring Reich Steve Reich ) , Electric Counterpoint , with electric guitar by Mats Bergstrom accompanied by a layered soundtrack , as well as two of Reich 's small ensemble pieces , one for acoustic instruments , the other for electric instruments and tape .
Released on 45 rpm and 78 rpm records , with the flip-side song `` Dancin ' Wild '' , the recording sold 100,000 copies , hitting No. 49 on the Billboard charts .
Both Simon & Garfunkel have acknowledged the tremendous impact of the Everly Brothers on their style , and many of their early songs ( including `` Hey , Schoolgirl '' ) bear the mark of this influence .
While Simon was in England that summer of 1965 , radio stations around Cocoa Beach and Gainesville , Florida , began to receive requests for a song from the album Wednesday Morning , 3 A.M. called `` The Sound of Silence '' .
Among the tracks on The Paul Simon Songbook that were rerecorded ( some with electric backing ) for Sound of Silence were `` I Am a Rock '' ( which as a single reached U.S. No. 3 in the summer of 1966 ) , `` Leaves That Are Green '' , `` April Come She Will '' , `` A Most Peculiar Man '' , and `` Kathy 's Song '' .
More tracks from The Paul Simon Songbook were included along with recent compositions on their October 10 , 1966 , album Parsley , Sage , Rosemary and Thyme , which refined the folk rock sound hastily released on Sound of Silence .
`` Cloudy '' , co-written earlier with Bruce Woodley , was included on Parsley , Sage , Rosemary and Thyme .
At the March 1969 Grammy Awards , `` Mrs. Robinson '' was named Record of the Year , while Simon was also honored with the Grammy for Best Original Score Written for a Motion Picture or a Television Special .
Simon & Garfunkel title track , featuring Garfunkel 's soaring vocals , was a massive hit and one of the best-selling records of the decade , staying No. 1 on the charts for six weeks and remaining on the charts for far longer .
The album includes three other top-twenty hits : `` El Cóndor Pasa '' ( US No. 18 ) , `` Cecilia '' ( US No. 4 ) , and `` The Boxer '' -- which , finished in 1968 , hit No. 7 on the charts the following year -- as well as a live recording of The Everly Brothers ' `` Bye Bye , Love '' from a 1969 tour concert in Ames , Iowa .
The episode `` Bendin ' in the Wind '' of Futurama , in a double send-up of Simon & Garfunkel and Battlestar Galactica , features the singing duo `` Cylon and Garfunkel '' performing a rendition of `` Scarborough Fair '' in which the robot Cylon 's singing is entirely monotone , and Garfunkel -- who explains during the performance that he is the descendant of Art -- states that he will give Bender the check `` over my dead career !
State Street Corporation , or simply State Street , is a U.S.-based financial services holding company .
In 1995 , State Street completed State Street Corporation previously announced acquisition of Kansas City , Missouri -- based custodian and securities servicer Investors Fiduciary Trust Co. ( `` IFTC '' ) , which had approximately $ 130 billion of assets under custody .
Since then , there has been a list of other suits involving various divisions - securities lending and Erisa actions , as well as further FX-related issues .
Spanish is the most widely understood language in the Western Hemisphere , with significant populations of native Spanish speakers ranging from the tip of Patagonia to as far north as New York City and Chicago .
The Diccionario panhispánico de dudas ( a language guide published by the Spanish Royal Academy ) states that , although the Spanish Royal Academy prefers to use the term español in Spanish language publications when referring to the Spanish language , both terms , español and castellano , are regarded as synonymous and equally valid .
The h - , still preserved in spelling , is now silent in most varieties of the language , although in some Andalusian and Caribbean dialects Spanish language is still aspirated in some words .
The Spanish consonant system is characterized by three voiceless stops and the affricate ; a set of voiced obstruents -- , , , and sometimes -- which alternate between fricative and plosive allophones depending on the environment ; and ( 5 ) a phonemic distinction between the `` tapped '' and `` trilled '' r-sounds ( single ⟨ r ⟩ and double ⟨ rr ⟩ in orthography ) .
Nationally , Spanish is the official language -- either de facto or de jure -- of Argentina , Bolivia ( co-official with Quechua , Aymara , Guarani and 34 other languages ) , Chile , Colombia , Costa Rica , Cuba , Dominican Republic , Ecuador , El Salvador , Guatemala , Honduras , Mexico , Nicaragua , Panama , Uruguay , Venezuela , Peru ( in addition to Spanish ; Quechua , Aymara and other indigenous languages are also official in areas where they predominate ) , Paraguay ( co-official with Guaraní ) .
Also the Cocoa Panyols , laborers from Venezuela , took their culture and language with them ; Spanish language are accredited with the music of `` Parang '' ( `` Parranda '' ) on the island .
Spanish is important in Brazil because of Spanish language proximity to and increased trade with Spanish language Spanish-speaking neighbors , and because of Spanish language membership in the Mercosur trading bloc and the Union of South American Nations .
In many border towns and villages ( especially in the Uruguayan-Brazilian and Paraguayan-Brazilian border areas ) , Spanish language is spoken .
In Equatorial Guinea , Spanish is the predominant language when native and non-native speakers ( around 500,000 people ) are counted , while Fang is the most spoken language by number of native speakers .
Sahrawi Press Service , the official news service of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic of Western Sahara , has been available in Spanish since 2001 , and RASD TV , the official television channel of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic , has a website available in Spanish .
Spanish is also spoken in the Spanish autonomous cities of Ceuta ( 75,241 ) and Melilla ( 73,460 ) in continental North Africa , and in the autonomous community of the Canary Islands ( 2,117,519 ) , a Spanish archipelago located just off the northwest coast of mainland Africa .
Spanish is spoken by some communities in Angola because of the Cuban influence from the Cold War and in South Sudan among South Sudanese natives that relocated to Cuba during the Sudanese wars and returned in time for their country 's independence .
This increased the use of Spanish throughout the islands and led to a class of Spanish-speaking intellectuals called the Ilustrados .
In 2010 , a Memorandum was signed between Spanish and Philippine authorities to cooperate in implementing this decree .
There are important variations -- phonological , grammatical , and lexical -- in the spoken Spanish of the various regions of Spain and throughout the Spanish-speaking areas of the Americas .
One of Spanish language main features is the reduction or loss of unstressed vowels , mainly when Spanish language are in contact with the sound / s / .
And the debuccalization ( pronunciation as , or loss ) of syllable-final is associated with southern Spain , the Caribbean , and coastal areas of South America .
The main grammatical variations between dialects of Spanish involve differing uses of pronouns : especially those of the second person and , to a lesser extent , the object pronouns of the third person .
Deviations from this norm ( more common in Spain than in the Americas ) are called `` leísmo '' , `` loísmo '' , or `` laísmo '' , according to which respective pronoun -- le , lo , or la -- has expanded beyond the etymological usage ( i.e. le as a direct object , or lo or la as an indirect object ) .
For example , Spanish mantequilla , aguacate and albaricoque ( respectively , ` butter ' , ` avocado ' , ` apricot ' ) correspond to manteca , palta , and damasco , respectively , in Argentina , Chile ( except manteca ) , Paraguay , Peru ( except manteca and damasco ) , and Uruguay .
The everyday Spanish words coger ( ` to take ' ) , pisar ( ` to step on ' ) and concha ( ` seashell ' ) are considered extremely rude in parts of Latin America , where the meaning of coger and pisar is also `` to have sex '' and concha means `` vulva '' .
Although Spanish and Portuguese are widely considered to be mutually intelligible , Spanish language has been noted that while most Portuguese speakers can understand spoken Spanish with little difficulty , Spanish speakers face more difficulty in understanding spoken Portuguese .
Spanish language contains , however , other vocabulary which is not found in standard Spanish , including vocabulary from Hebrew , French , Greek and Turkish , and other languages spoken where the Sephardim settled .
Judaeo-Spanish is in serious danger of extinction because many native speakers today are elderly as well as elderly olim ( immigrants to Israel ) who have not transmitted Spanish language to their children or grandchildren .
Spanish is written in the Latin script , with the addition of the character ⟨ ñ ⟩ ( , representing the phoneme , a letter distinct from ⟨ n ⟩ , although typographically composed of an ⟨ n ⟩ with a tilde ) and the digraphs ⟨ ch ⟩ ( , representing the phoneme ) and ⟨ ll ⟩ ( , representing the phoneme ) .
However , the digraph ⟨ rr ⟩ ( , ` strong r ' , , ` double r ' , or simply ) , which also represents a distinct phoneme , is not similarly regarded as a single letter .
The interrogative pronouns ( , , , , etc. ) also receive accents in direct or indirect questions , and some demonstratives ( , , , etc. ) can be accented when used as pronouns .
Accent marks used to be omitted in capital letters ( a widespread practice in the days of typewriters and the early days of computers when only lowercase vowels were available with accents ) , although the Real Academia Española advises against this and the orthographic conventions taught at schools enforce the use of the accent .
When sodium or Sodium compounds are introduced into a flame , Sodium turn Sodium yellow , because the excited 3s electrons of sodium emit a photon when Sodium fall from 3p to 3s ; the wavelength of this photon corresponds to the D line at 589.3 nm .
Two radioactive , cosmogenic isotopes are the byproduct of cosmic ray spallation : 22Na with a half-life of 2.6 years and 24Na with a half-life of 15 hours ; all other isotopes have a half-life of less than one minute .
Along with potassium , many important medicines have sodium added to improve their bioavailability ; although in most cases potassium is the better ion , sodium is selected for Sodium lower price and atomic weight.Sodium hydride is used as a base for various reactions ( such as the aldol reaction ) in organic chemistry , and as a reducing agent in inorganic chemistry .
Like the other alkali metals , sodium dissolves in ammonia and some amines to give deeply coloured solutions ; evaporation of these solutions leaves a shiny film of metallic sodium .
Cryptands , like crown ethers and other ionophores , have a high affinity for Sodium ; derivatives of the alkalide Na - are obtainable by the addition of cryptands to solutions of sodium in ammonia via disproportionation .
Some well known derivatives include sodium cyclopentadienide ( NaC5H5 ) and trityl sodium ( ( C6H5 ) 3CNa ) .
Natron historically had several important industrial and household uses , later eclipsed by other sodium compounds .
Liquid sodium is used as a heat transfer fluid in some fast reactors , due to Sodium high thermal conductivity and low neutron absorption cross section , which is required to achieve a high neutron flux ; the high boiling point allows the reactor to operate at ambient pressure .
Sodium chloride is the principal source of sodium in the diet , and is used as seasoning and preservative , such as for pickling and jerky ; most of Sodium comes from processed foods .
Fire extinguishers based on water accelerate sodium fires ; those based on carbon dioxide and bromochlorodifluoromethane lose their effectiveness when Sodium dissipate .
Suriname ( or Surinam ) , officially known as the Republic of Suriname , is a country in northern South America .
It is bordered by French Guiana to the east , Guyana to the west , Brazil to the south and the Atlantic Ocean to the north , making it one of two countries , French Guiana the other , not to border any of the Spanish-speaking countries on the continent .
( French Guiana , while less extensive and populous , is an overseas department of France .
The older English name is reflected in the English pronunciation , or .
Suriname is situated between French Guiana to the east and Guyana to the west .
The southernmost borders with French Guiana and Guyana are disputed by these countries along the Marowijne and Corantijn rivers , respectively , while a part of the disputed maritime boundary with Guyana was arbitrated by a tribunal convened under the rules set out in of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on 20 September 2007 .
Average relative humidity is between 80 % and 90 % .
Disputes arose between the Dutch and the English .
With the help of the native South Americans living in the adjoining rain forests , these runaway slaves established a new and unique culture that was highly successful in Suriname own right .
Suriname were known collectively in English as the Maroons , in French as the Nèg ` Marrons ( literally meaning `` maroon negroes '' , that is `` runaway negro slaves '' ) , and in Dutch as Bosnegers ( literally meaning `` forest negroes '' ) .
Although Suriname 's population remains relatively small , because of this history Suriname is one of the most ethnically and culturally diverse countries in the world .
In 1973 , the local government , led by the NPK ( a largely Creole , meaning ethnically African or mixed African-European , party ) started negotiations with the Dutch government leading towards full independence , which was granted on 25 November 1975 .
Between 2am and 5am on the morning of 7 December 1982 , the military , under the leadership of Dési Bouterse , rounded up 15 prominent citizens who had criticized the military dictatorship in Suriname , and brought them to Fort Zeelandia .
His power began to wane after the 1991 elections ; an ongoing brutal civil war between the Suriname army and Maroons loyal to rebel leader Ronnie Brunswijk , begun in 1986 , further weakened Bouterse 's position during the 1990s .
Violent riots broke out in Albina in 2009 between the local Maroon population and Brazilian gold diggers .
The vast majority of people ( about 90 % ) live in Paramaribo or on the coast .
Suriname is the only Dutch-speaking country in South America well as the only independent nation in the Americas where Dutch is spoken , and one of the two non-Romance-speaking countries on the continent , the other being English-speaking Guyana .
Sranan Tongo , a local creole language originally spoken by the creole population group , is the most widely used language in the streets and often interchangeably with Dutch depending on the formality of the setting .
Surinamese Hindi or Sarnami , a dialect of Bhojpuri , is the third-most used language , spoken by the descendants of South Asian contract workers from then British India .
The Maroon languages , somewhat intelligible with Sranan Tongo , include Saramaka , Paramakan , Ndyuka ( also called Aukan ) , Kwinti and Matawai .
Amerindian languages , spoken by Amerindians , include Carib and Arawak .
Some propose to change the national language to English , so as to improve links to the Caribbean and North America , or to Spanish , as a nod to Suriname 's location in South America , although it has no Spanish-speaking neighbours .
Suriname and neighboring Guyana are the only two countries on the ( in-land ) South American continent that drive on the left .
A much smaller number , important for coalition-building , went to the `` A & The President of Suriname , who is elected for a five-year term by a two-thirds majority of the National Assembly or , failing that , by a majority of the People 's Assembly , heads the executive branch .
A vice president , normally elected at the same time as the president , needs a simple majority in the National Assembly or People 's Assembly to be elected for a five-year term .
Students going from the second grade middle school to the third grade have to choose between the business ( A ) or science ( B ) courses .
The rental of apartments , or the rent-a-house phenomenon , is also popular in Suriname .
Raleighvallen , or Raleigh Falls , is a 56000 ha nature reserve on the Coppename River , rich in bird life .
The Jules Wijdenbosch Bridge is a bridge over the river Suriname between Paramaribo and Meerzorg in the Commewijne district .
Suriname is one of the most ethnically and culturally diverse countries in the world .
The existence of Grothendieck universes ( other than the empty set and the set of all hereditarily finite sets ) is not implied by the usual ZF axioms ; Category of sets is an additional , independent axiom , roughly equivalent to the existence of strongly inaccessible cardinals .
The largest city is the capital , Bratislava , and the second largest is Košice .
A separate Slovak state briefly existed during World War II , during which Slovakia was a dependency of Nazi Germany between 1939 and 1944 .
Other stone tools from the Middle Paleolithic era ( 200,000 -- 80,000 BC ) come from the Prévôt ( Prepoštská ) cave near Bojnice and from other nearby sites .
These findings provide the most ancient evidence of commercial exchanges carried out between the Mediterranean and Central Europe .
The arrival of tribes from Thrace disrupted the people of the Calenderberg culture , who lived in the hamlets located on the plain ( Sereď ) , and also in the hill forts located on the summits ( Smolenice , Molpí ) .
The local power of the `` Princes '' of the Hallstatt culture disappeared in Slovakia during the last period of the Iron Age after strife between the Scytho-Thracian people and the Celtic tribes , who advanced from the south towards the north , following the Slovak rivers .
Radiocarbon dating Near the northernmost line of the Roman hinterlands , the Limes Romanus , there existed the winter camp of Laugaricio ( modern-day Trenčín ) where the Auxiliary of Legion II fought and prevailed in a decisive battle over the Germanic Quadi tribe in 179 AD during the Marcomannic Wars .
When Mojmír I endeavoured to secede from the supremacy of the king of East Francia in 846 , King Louis the German deposed him and assisted Moimír 's nephew , Rastislav ( 846 -- 870 ) in acquiring the throne .
Upon Rastislav 's request , two brothers , Byzantine officials and missionaries Saints Cyril and Methodius came in 863 .
Numerous fortified castles built throughout Slovakia are dated to his reign and some of them ( e.g. , Dowina , sometimes identified with Devín Castle ) are also mentioned in connection with Rastislav by Frankish chronicles .
Svatopluk also withstood attacks of the semi-nomadic Magyar tribes and the Bulgarian Empire , although sometimes it was he who hired the Magyars when waging war against East Francia .
In three battles ( 4 -- 5 July and 9 August 907 ) near Bratislava , the Magyars routed Bavarian armies .
Great Moravia left behind a lasting legacy in Central and Eastern Europe .
The ethnic composition became more diverse with the arrival of the Carpathian Germans in the 13th century , and the Jews in the 14th century .
Before the Ottoman Empire 's expansion into Hungary and the occupation of Buda in 1541 , the capital of the Kingdom of Hungary ( under the name of Royal Hungary ) moved to Pozsony ( in Slovak : Prespork at that time , currently Bratislava ) .
Eventually this led to the Munich Agreement of September 1938 , which allowed Nazi Germany to partially dismember Slovakia by occupying what was called the Sudetenland , a region with a German-speaking majority and bordering Germany and Austria .
Southern and eastern Slovakia , however , was claimed back by Hungary at the First Vienna Award of November 1938 .
Thousands of Jews , however , remained to labor in Slovak work camps in Sereď , Vyhne , and Nováky .
Tiso , through the granting of presidential exceptions , has been credited with saving as many as 40,000 Jews during the war , although other estimates place the figure closer to 4,000 or even 1,000 .
After it became clear that the Soviet Red Army was going to push the Nazis out of eastern and central Europe , an anti-Nazi resistance movement launched a fierce armed insurrection , known as the Slovak National Uprising , near the end of summer 1944 .
Slovakia became a member of NATO on 29 March 2004 and of the European Union on 1 May 2004 .
To the north , close to the Polish border , are the High Tatras which are a popular hiking and skiing destination and home to many scenic lakes and valleys as well as the highest point in Slovakia , the Gerlachovský štít at and Slovakia highly symbolic mountain Kriváň .
To the west are the Western Tatras with their highest peak of Rysy at and to the east are the Belianske Tatras , smallest by area .
Other caves open to public include Belianska Cave , Demänovská Cave of Liberty , Demänovská Ice Cave or Bystrianska Cave Most of the rivers stem in Slovak mountains .
About 7 % are apparently extinct , 9 % endangered , 17 % vulnerable , and 7 % rare .
In 2007 ( with the GDP growth of 10.5 % ) , 2008 ( with 5.8 % ) and 2010 ( with 4.2 % ) , Slovakia was the fastest growing economy in the European Union .
Various ancient trade routes , such as the Amber Road and the Danube waterway , have crossed territory of present-day Bratislava .
Bratislava is a large international motorway junction : The D1 motorway connects Bratislava to Trnava , Nitra , Trenčín , Žilina and beyond , while the D2 motorway , going in the north-south direction , connects it to Prague , Brno and Budapest in the north-south direction .
The supreme and central gallery institution displaying Slovak art nowadays is the Slovak National Gallery , established in 1949 .
Romanticism of Jozef B. Klemens ( 1817 -- 1883 ) and Peter Michal Bohúň ( 1822 -- 1879 ) was represented in the portrait paintings of Slovak national protagonists of that time ( Štefan Moyses , Andrej Sládkovič , Karol Kuzmány or Ľudovít Štúr ) , depicting the revolutionary atmosphere of the 1840s in the background .
20th century Painters Mikuláš Galanda ( 1895 - 1938 ) , Martin Benka ( 1888 - 1971 ) , Janko Alexy ( 1894 - 1970 ) , Miloš Alexander Bazovský ( 1899 - 1968 ) , Gustáv Mallý ( 1879 - 1952 ) and Jan Hála ( 1890 - 1959 ) are considered to be the ones who laid foundations of the Slovak modern art in the first half of the 20th century .
Andy Warhol ( 1928 -- 1987 ) , a leading figure in the 20th century visual art movement known as pop art , was born in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania as Andrej Varchola to Slovak parents Ondrej Varchola ( 1889 -- 1942 ) and Júlia ( née Zavacká , 1892 -- 1972 ) .
Dissenters listened to ORF ( Austrian Radio ) , Radio Luxembourg , or Slobodná Európa ( Radio Free Europe ) , which played more rock .
Jazz Peter Lipa ( 1943 ) is a well known Slovak singer , composer and promoter of modern jazz .
In comparison with other European countries , `` game meat '' is more accessible in Slovakia due to vast resources of forest and because hunting is relatively popular .
Slovakia is a dependency of Nazi Germany between 1939 and 1944 .
To be termed scientific , a method of inquiry must be based on empirical and measurable evidence subject to specific principles of reasoning .
The hypothesis might be very specific , e.g. , Einstein 's equivalence principle or Francis Crick 's `` DNA makes RNA makes protein '' , or Scientific method might be broad , e.g. , unknown species of life dwell in the unexplored depths of the oceans .
One thousand years ago , Alhazen demonstrated the importance of forming questions and subsequently testing them , an approach which was advocated by Galileo in 1638 with the publication of Two New Sciences .
The discovery became the starting point for many further studies involving the genetic material , such as the field of molecular genetics , and Scientific method was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1962 .
The most successful explanations , which explain and make accurate predictions in a wide range of circumstances , are called scientific theories .
Myths intended to be taken as true must have Scientific method elements assumed a priori , while science requires testing and validation a posteriori before ideas are accepted .
The observed difference for Mercury 's precession between Newtonian theory and observation was one of the things that occurred to Einstein as a possible early test of his theory of General Relativity .
In Scientific method first paper , Watson and Crick also noted that the double helix structure they proposed provided a simple mechanism for DNA replication , writing `` Scientific method has not escaped our notice that the specific pairing we have postulated immediately suggests a possible copying mechanism for the genetic material '' .
DNA-experiments Einstein 's theory of General Relativity makes several specific predictions about the observable structure of space-time , such as that light bends in a gravitational field , and that the amount of bending depends in a precise way on the strength of that gravitational field .
After considerable fruitless experimentation , being discouraged by Scientific method superior from continuing , and numerous false starts , Watson and Crick were able to infer the essential structure of DNA by concrete modeling of the physical shapes of the nucleotides which comprise Scientific method .
Scientific method has not always been like this : in the old days of the `` gentleman scientist '' funding ( and to a lesser extent publication ) were far weaker constraints .
Philosophy of science looks at the underpinning logic of Scientific method , at what separates science from non-science , and the ethic that is implicit in science .
There are basic assumptions derived from philosophy that form the base of the scientific method - namely , that reality is objective and consistent , that humans have the capacity to perceive reality accurately , and that rational explanations exist for elements of the real world .
Kuhn ( 1961 ) said the scientist generally has a theory in mind before designing and undertaking experiments so as to make empirical observations , and that the `` route from theory to measurement can almost never be traveled backward '' .
This ongoing debate , known as the science wars , is the result of conflicting values and assumptions between the postmodernist and realist camps .
This is what professor of economics Nassim Nicholas Taleb calls `` Anti-fragility '' ; while some systems of investigation are fragile in the face of human error , human bias , and randomness , Scientific method is more than resistant or tough - it actually benefits from such randomness in many ways ( it is anti-fragile ) .
These unexpected results lead researchers to try and fix what they think is an error in their method .
The ancient Greek philosopher Thales in the 6th century BC refused to accept supernatural , religious or mythological explanations for natural phenomena , proclaiming that every event had a natural cause .
For example , Alhazen performed optical and physiological experiments , reported in his manifold works , the most famous being Book of Optics ( 1021 ) .
He thus placed induction and deduction in a complementary rather than competitive context ( the latter of which had been the primary trend at least since David Hume , who wrote in the mid-to-late 18th century ) .
Secondly , and of more direct importance to modern method , Peirce put forth the basic schema for hypothesis/testing that continues to prevail today .
In fact , some observers ( including some well known mathematicians such as Gregory Chaitin , and others such as Lakoff and Núñez ) have suggested that mathematics is the result of practitioner bias and human limitation ( including cultural ones ) , somewhat like the post-modernist view of science .
Shotgun ( also known as a scattergun and peppergun , or historically as Shotgun ) is a firearm that is usually designed to be fired from the shoulder , which uses the energy of a fixed shell to fire a number of small spherical pellets called shot , or a solid projectile called a slug .
Balancing this is the fact that shot spreads further upon entering the target , and the multiple wound channels of a defensive load are far more likely to produce a disabling wound than a rifle or handgun .
These involve shooting clay discs , also known as clay pigeons , thrown in by hand and by machine .
Shotgun are often used to hunt whitetail deer in the thick brush and briers of the Southeastern and upper Midwestern United States , where , due to the dense cover , ranges tend to be very close - 25 m or less .
The use of a rifled barrel blurs the distinction between rifle and shotgun , and in fact the early rifled shotgun barrels went by the name Paradox for just that reason .
Shotgun is sometimes known as a `` Lupara '' ( in Italian a generic reference to the word `` Lupo '' ( `` Wolf '' ) ) in Southern Italy and Sicily .
Backpacker shotguns are popular for `` home defense '' purposes and as `` survival '' weapons .
Shot was also used in warfare ; the buck and ball loading , mixing a musket ball with three or six buckshot , was used throughout the history of the smoothbore musket .
As a defense weapon Shotgun remained popular with guards and lawmen , however , and the shotgun became one of many symbols of the American Old West .
The weapon both these men used was the short-barreled version favored by private strongbox guards on stages and trains .
In fact during these decades a wide variety of ingenious weapons , including rifles , adopted what is now often known as a ` needle-fire ' method of igniting the charge , where a firing pin or a longer sharper needle provided the necessary impact .
These shotguns were fitted with bayonets and a heat shield so the barrel could be gripped while the bayonet was deployed .
A variety of specialty less-lethal or non-lethal ammunitions , such as tear gas shells , bean bags , flares , explosive sonic stun rounds , and rubber projectiles , all packaged into 12 gauge shotgun shells , are produced specifically for the law enforcement market .
For most of the history of Shotgun , the break-action breech loading double was the most common type , typically divided into two subtypes : the traditional `` side by side '' shotgun features two barrels mounted one beside the other ( as the name suggests ) , whereas the `` over and under '' shotgun has the two barrels mounted one on top of the other .
Side by side shotguns were traditionally used for hunting and other sporting pursuits ( early long barreled side-by side shotguns were known as Fowling Pieces for their use hunting ducks and other birds ) , whereas over and under shotguns are more commonly associated with sporting use ( such as clay pigeon/skeet shooting ) .
Another , less commonly encountered type of break-action shotgun is the combination gun , which is an over and under design with one shotgun barrel and one rifle barrel ( more often rifle on top , but rifle on bottom was not uncommon ) .
In pump-action shotguns , a sliding forearm handle ( the pump ) works the action , extracting the spent shell and inserting a new one while cocking the hammer or striker as the pump is worked .
Tube-fed models designed for hunting often come with a dowel rod or other stop that is inserted into the magazine and reduces the capacity of Shotgun to three shells ( two in the magazine and one chambered ) as is mandated by U.S. federal law when hunting migratory birds .
The minimum barrel length for shotguns in most of the U.S. is 18 '' ( 457 mm ) , and this barrel length ( sometimes 18.5 '' -20 '' ( 470 -- 500 mm ) to increase magazine capacity and/or ensure Shotgun is legal regardless of measuring differences ) is the primary choice for riot shotguns .
Lever shotguns , while less common , were popular in the late 19th century with the Winchester Model 1887 and Model 1901 being prime examples .
gauge shotgun shell and using the action of the Winchester Model 94 series lever-action rifle , hence the name ) , and a handful of other firearm manufacturers ( primarily Norinco of China and ADI Ltd. of Australia ) producing versions of the Winchester Model 1887/1901 designed for modern 12-gauge smokeless shotshells with more durable plastic casings .
Some , such as the Franchi SPAS-12 and Benelli M3 , are capable of switching between semi-automatic and pump action .
These are popular for two reasons ; first , some jurisdictions forbid the use of semi-automatic actions for hunting , and second , lower-powered rounds , like `` reduced-recoil '' buckshot shells and many less lethal cartridges , have insufficient power to reliably cycle a semi-automatic shotgun .
The ball shot or pellets is for the most part made of lead but this has been partially replaced by bismuth , steel , tungsten-iron , tungsten-nickel-iron and even tungsten polymer loads .
In reality the pattern is closer to a Gaussian , or normal distribution , with a higher density in the center that tapers off at the edges .
Small game shotguns , for hunting game like rabbits and squirrels , or shotguns for use with buckshot for deer , are often 56 to 61 cm ( 22 to 24 inches ) .
Breaching rounds , often called Disintegrator or Hatton rounds , are designed to destroy door locking mechanisms without risking lives .
Globally , shotguns are generally not as heavily regulated as rifles or handguns , likely because Shotgun lack the range of rifles and are not easily concealable as handguns are ; thus , Shotgun are perceived as a lesser threat by legislative authorities .
Most shotguns ( including break-action , bolt-action and lever-action shotguns ) are classed as `` Category A '' weapons and , as such , are comparatively easy to obtain a licence for , given a legally recognised ` legitimate reason ' ( compare to the British requirement for ` good reason ' for a FAC ) , such as target shooting or hunting .
All other shotgun action types ( pump/slide , break open , lever , bolt ) do not have a magazine limit restriction or a minimum barrel length provided the overall length of Shotgun remains more than 660 mm ( 26 inches ) and the barrel was produced by an approved manufacturer .
Semi-automatic shotguns with a barrel length of less than 470 mm ( 18.5 inches ) are considered restricted and any shotgun that has been altered so Shotgun barrel length is less than 457 mm ( 18 inches ) or if Shotgun overall length is less than 660 mm ( 26 inches ) is considered prohibited .
B. ) was an ancient seaport town on the south coast of Spain , between Malaca ( now Málaga ) and Carthago Nova ( now Cartagena ) , in the district inhabited by the Bastuli .
Of Abdera, Spain coins , the most ancient bear the Phoenician inscription abdrt with the head of Melkart and a tunny-fish ; those of Tiberius ( who seems to have made the place a colonia ) show the chief temple of the town with two erect tunny fish in the form of columns .
Saskatchewan ( or ) is a prairie province in Canada , which has a total area of and a land area of , the remainder being water area ( covered by lakes/ponds , reservoirs and rivers ) .
The Cypress Hills , located in the southwestern corner of Saskatchewan and Killdeer Badlands ( Grasslands National Park ) , are areas of the province that remained unglaciated during the last glaciation period .
This fact , combined with Saskatchewan northerly latitude , gives Saskatchewan a warm ( but not really hot ) summer , corresponding to Saskatchewan humid continental climate ( Köppen type Dfb ) in the central and most of the eastern parts of the province , as well as the Cypress Hills ; drying off to a semi-arid steppe climate ( Köppen type BSk ) in the southwestern part of the province .
While studies , as early as 1988 ( Williams , et al. , 1988 ) have shown that climate change will affect agriculture , whether the effects can be mitigated through adaptations of cultivars , or crops , is less clear .
Most of what is now Saskatchewan , though , was part of Rupert 's Land and controlled by the Hudson 's Bay Company , which claimed rights to all watersheds flowing into Hudson Bay , including the Saskatchewan , Churchill , Assiniboine , Souris , and Qu'Appelle River systems .
In the late 1850s and early 1860s , scientific expeditions led by John Palliser and Henry Youle Hind explored the prairie region of Saskatchewan .
Many Métis people , who had not been signatories to a treaty , had moved to the Southbranch Settlement and Prince Albert district north of present-day Saskatoon following the Red River Rebellion in Manitoba in 1870 .
Riel , who surrendered and was convicted of treason in a packed Regina courtroom , was hanged on November 16 , 1885 .
In the late 1920s , the Ku Klux Klan , imported from the United States and Ontario , gained brief popularity in nativist circles in Saskatchewan Saskatchewan .
The Klan , briefly allied with the provincial Conservative party because of their mutual dislike for Premier James G. `` Jimmy '' Gardiner and his Liberals ( who ferociously fought the Klan ) , enjoyed about two years of prominence .
This farm-industry trade show , with Saskatchewan strong emphasis on livestock , is rated as one of the five top livestock shows in North America , along with those in Houston , Denver , Louisville and Toronto .
Oil and natural gas production is also a very important part of Saskatchewan economy , although the oil industry is larger .
Provincial politics in Saskatchewan is dominated by the social-democratic New Democrats and the centre-right Saskatchewan Party , with the latter holding the majority in the Legislative Assembly of Saskatchewan as of 2012 .
While both Saskatoon and Regina ( Saskatchewan largest cities ) are roughly twice the population of an urban riding in Canada , both are split into multiple ridings that blend them with rural communities .
There were only a few missionary or trading post schools established in Rupert 's Land -- later known as the North West Territories .
Unlike in Medicare in Australia and private medicine in the UK , Saskatchewan sets a statutory tariff for medical services which may not be exceeded .
The first Canadian transcontinental railway was constructed by the Canadian Pacific Railway between 1881 and 1885 .
The 1920s saw the largest rise in rail line track as the CPR and CNR fell into competition to provide rail service within ten kilometres .
This is part of the Asia-Pacific Gateway and Corridor Initiative to improve access to the Canadian National Railway 's intermodal freight terminal thereby increasing Asia-Pacific trade .
This creates a stratified society based on unequal social relations that fails to provide equal opportunities for every individual to maximise Socialism potential , and does not utilise available technology and resources to Socialism maximum potential in the interests of the public .
In a fully developed socialist economy , production and balancing factor inputs with outputs becomes a technical process to be undertaken by engineers .
Planning agencies , ministries and enterprises all adapted and bargained with each other during the formulation of the plan as opposed to following a plan passed down from a higher authority , leading some economists to suggest that planning did not actually take place within Socialism and that a better description would be an `` administered '' or `` managed '' economy .
Various economists and political theorists , including Richard D. Wolff and Stephen Resnick , have criticised the notion that the Soviet-style planned economies represented a type of socialist economy .
The socialist-run government of Salvador Allende in Chile experimented with Project Cybersyn , a real-time information bridge between the government , state enterprises and consumers .
State socialism can be used to classify any variety of socialist philosophies that advocates the ownership of the means of production by the state apparatus , either as a transitional stage between capitalism and socialism , or as an end-goal in Socialism .
British Shipbuilders was a combination of the major shipbuilding companies including Cammell Laird , Govan Shipbuilders , Swan Hunter , and Yarrow Shipbuilders ; the nationalisation of the coal mines in 1947 created a coal board charged with running the coal industry commercially so as to be able to meet the interest payable on the bonds which the former mine owners ' shares had been converted into .
However , the Chinese economic model is widely cited as a contemporary form of state capitalism , the major difference between Western capitalism and the Chinese model being the degree of state-ownership of shares in publicly listed corporations .
The major characteristics of socialism ( particularly as conceived by Marx and Engels after the Paris Commune of 1871 ) are that the proletariat will control the means of production through a workers ' state erected by the workers in their interests .
This conflict between collective effort in large factories and private ownership would bring about a conscious desire in the working class to establish collective ownership commensurate with the collective efforts their daily experience .
Thorstein Veblen , a leading American institutionalist and evolutionary economist , argued that a subset of the working-class , the technical specialists and engineers , would become the driving force behind socioeconomic change within capitalism .
The state , along with the concept of property and taxation , are concepts exclusive to commercial society ( capitalism ) ; placing them within the context of a future socialist society amounts to a distortion of these concepts .
`` Revolution '' is not necessarily defined by revolutionary socialists as violent insurrection , but as a complete dismantling and rapid transformation of all areas of class society led by the majority of the masses : the working class .
The term socialist has also been used by some politicians on the political right as an epithet against certain individuals who do not consider themselves to be socialists , and against policies that are not considered socialist by their proponents .
There are many variations of socialism and as such there is no single definition encapsulating all of socialism .
Bhikhu Parekh in The Concepts of Socialism ( 1975 ) identifies four core principles of socialism and particularly socialist society : sociality , social responsibility , cooperation , and planning .
Islamic Socialist leaders believe in Democracy and deriving legitimacy from public mandate as opposed to religious texts .
In the late 20th century , the term `` socialist '' became used by Third Way social democrats to refer to a set of ethical ideals and values as opposed to a form of socio-economic system .
Other early socialist thinkers , such as Thomas Hodgkin and Charles Hall , based their ideas on David Ricardo 's economic theories .
Socialism reasoned that the equilibrium value of commodities approximated to prices charged by the producer when those commodities were in elastic supply , and that these producer prices corresponded to the embodied labour -- the cost of the labour ( essentially the wages paid ) that was required to produce the commodities .
West European social critics , including Robert Owen , Charles Fourier , Pierre-Joseph Proudhon , Louis Blanc , Charles Hall and Saint-Simon , were the first modern socialists who criticised the excessive poverty and inequality of the Industrial Revolution .
The Owenites in England and the Fourierists in France were considered `` respectable '' socialists , while working-class movements that `` proclaimed the necessity of total social change '' denoted themselves communists .
The first objections to Marx 's came from the Mutualists who opposed communism and statism .
However , shortly after Mikhail Bakunin and his followers ( called Collectivists while in the International ) joined in 1868 , the First International became polarised into two camps , with Marx and Bakunin as their respective figureheads .
As the ideas of Marx and Engels took on flesh , particularly in central Europe , Socialism sought to unite in an international organisation .
On 26 January 1918 , the day after assuming executive power , Lenin wrote Draft Regulations on Workers ' Control , which granted workers control of businesses with more than five workers and office employees , and access to all books , documents and stocks , and whose decisions were to be `` binding upon the owners of the enterprises '' .
Governing through the elected soviets , and in alliance with the peasant-based Left Socialist-Revolutionaries , the Bolshevik government began nationalising banks , industry , and disavowed the national debts of the deposed Romanov royal régime .
Socialism sued for peace , withdrawing from World War I , and convoked a Constituent Assembly in which the peasant Socialist-Revolutionary Party ( SR ) won a majority .
In 1922 , the fourth congress of the Communist International took up the policy of the United Front , urging Communists to work with rank and file Social Democrats while remaining critical of their leaders , whom they criticised for betraying the working class by supporting the war efforts of their respective capitalist classes .
For their part , the social democrats pointed to the dislocation caused by revolution , and later , the growing authoritarianism of the Communist Parties .
Socialism declared : `` Communism has split the International Labour Movement and has set back the realisation of Socialism in many countries for decades ... Communism falsely claims a share in the Socialist tradition .
The industrial production system in the Soviet Union suffered a political and economic collapse in 1991 , after which two transitions occurred : first from centrally planned to market-based economies , and secondly , from state-ownership to private-ownership of economic enterprises .
In the UK , the Labour Party was influenced by the British social reformer William Beveridge , who had identified five `` Giant Evils '' afflicting the working class of the pre-war period : `` want '' ( poverty ) , disease , `` ignorance '' ( lack of access to education ) , `` squalor '' ( poor housing ) , and `` idleness '' ( unemployment ) .
Aneurin Bevan , who had introduced the Labour Party 's National Health Service in 1948 , criticised the Attlee government for not progressing further , demanding economic planning and criticising the implementation of nationalisation for not empowering the workers with democratic control of operations .
British Petroleum , privatised in 1987 , was officially nationalised in 1951 , and there was further government intervention during the 1974 -- 79 Labour Government Anthony Crosland said that in 1956 , 25 per cent of British industry was nationalised , and that public employees , including those in nationalised industries , constituted a similar percentage of the country 's total employed population .
The Labour government , however , did not seek to end capitalism , and the `` government had not the smallest intention of bringing in the ` common ownership of the means of production , distribution , and exchange ' '' , Labour re-nationalised steel ( 1967 , British Steel ) after the Conservatives denationalised it , and nationalised car production ( 1976 , British Leyland ) .
The Nordic Model , however , is not a single model with specific components or rules ; each of the Nordic countries has Socialism own economic and social models , sometimes with large differences from Socialism neighbours .
Many social democratic parties , particularly after the Cold war , adopted neoliberal-based market policies that include privatisation , liberalisation , deregulation and financialisation ; resulting in the abandonment of pursuing the development of moderate socialism in favour of market liberalism .
Socialism believes that , by the strength of our common endeavour we achieve more than we achieve alone , so as to create , for each of us , the means to realise our true potential , and , for all of us , a community in which power , wealth , and opportunity are in the hands of the many , not the few '' .
The objectives of the Party of European Socialists , the European Parliament 's socialist bloc , are now `` to pursue international aims in respect of the principles on which the European Union is based , namely principles of freedom , equality , solidarity , democracy , respect of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms , and respect for the Rule of Law '' .
As a result , today , the rallying cry of the French Revolution -- `` Egalité , Liberté , Fraternité '' -- which overthrew absolutism and ushered industrialisation into French society , are promoted as essential socialist values .
A Globescan BBC poll on the twentieth anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall ( 2009 ) found that 23 % of respondents believe capitalism is `` fatally flawed and a different economic system is needed '' , with that figure rising to over 40 % of the population in France ; while a majority of respondents including over 50 % of Americans believe capitalism `` has problems that can be addressed through regulation and reform '' .
He was a firm believer in rural Africans and their traditions and ujamaa , a system of collectivisation that according to Nyerere was present before European imperialism .
One of these gave rise to a mass movement of shack dwellers , Abahlali baseMjondolo that , despite major police suppression , continues to work for popular people 's planning and against the creation of a market economy in land and housing .
Deng 's programme , however , maintained state ownership rights over land , state or cooperative ownership of much of the heavy industrial and manufacturing sectors and state influence in the banking and financial sectors .
In Denmark , the Socialist People 's Party ( SF or Socialist Party for short ) more than doubled its parliamentary representation to 23 seats from 11 , making it the fourth largest party .
In the following May 2010 UK general election , the Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition , launched in January 2010 and backed by Bob Crow , the leader of the National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers union ( RMT ) , other union leaders and the Socialist Party among other socialist groups , stood against Labour in 40 constituencies .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez , Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega , Bolivian President Evo Morales , and Ecuadorian president Rafael Correa refer to their political programmes as Socialism .
`` Pink tide '' is a term being used in contemporary 21st century political analysis in the media and elsewhere to describe the perception that Leftist ideology in general , and Left-wing politics in particular , are increasingly influential in Latin America .
Economists of the Austrian school argue that socialist systems based on economic planning are unfeasible because Socialism lack the information to perform economic calculation in the first place , due to a lack of price signals and a free price system , which Socialism argue are required for rational economic calculation .
Sabine River (Texas–Louisiana) is Sabine River (Texas–Louisiana) , long , in the U.S. states of Texas and Louisiana .
Along much of Sabine River (Texas–Louisiana) lower reaches , Sabine River (Texas–Louisiana) flows through pine forests along the Texas-Louisiana border , and the bayou country near the Gulf Coast .
Sabine River (Texas–Louisiana) drains an area of , of which is in Texas and in Louisiana .
Sabine River (Texas–Louisiana) was often described as the dividing line between the Old South and the New Southwest .
The Caddo Fork , shown as `` Caddo Creek '' on federal maps , rises in two tributary forks , the East Caddo Fork and the West Caddo Fork , in northwestern Hunt County .
In northeast Texas , Sabine River (Texas–Louisiana) flows past Mineola , Gladewater , Big Sandy , and Longview , the largest city on Sabine River (Texas–Louisiana) , to southwest of Shreveport at the 32nd parallel north , where it establishes the Texas-Louisiana boundary .
Approximately south of Orange , Texas , it meets the Neches River from the west to form the and Sabine Lake , which drains through Sabine Pass to the Gulf of Mexico .
Gerald Duff , novelist and short story writer , has set several of his works in the territory of the Sabine , including the stories `` Texas Wherever You Look , '' `` The Way a Blind Man Tracks Light , '' and `` Redemption '' .
In Jack Kerouac 's 1955 novel , On The Road , the book 's narrator Sal Paradise and other prominent character Dean Moriarty ( an alias of Kerouac 's friend Neal Cassady ) encounter Sabine River (Texas–Louisiana) .
Sabine River (Texas–Louisiana) is a river , long , in the U.S. states of Texas and Louisiana .
The municipality of Abdera, Thrace , or Ávdira , has 19,005 inhabitants ( 2011 ) .
The chief coin type , a griffon , is identical with that of Teos ; the rich silver coinage is noted for the beauty and variety of Abdera, Thrace reverse types .
The elements , or parts , can include people , hardware , software , facilities , policies , documents : all things required to produce system-level results .
For example , a combination of depressant drugs that affect the central nervous system ( CNS ) , such as alcohol and Valium , can cause a greater reaction than simply the sum of the individual effects of each drug if they were used separately .
The thesis , in a nutshell , is that Synergy effects have often provided functional advantages ( economic benefits ) in relation to survival and reproduction that have been favored by natural selection .
Because toxic interactions are defined relative to the expectation under `` no interaction '' , a determination of synergy ( or antagonism ) depends on what is meant by `` no interaction '' .
For example , if company A sells product X through Synergy sales force , company B sells product Y , and company A decides to buy company B then the new company could use each sales person to sell products X and Y , thereby increasing the revenue that each sales person generates for the company .
Acts reports that Apollos arrived in Achaia with letters of recommendation from Ephesian Christians and `` greatly helped those who through grace had believed , for Apollos powerfully refuted the Jews in public , showing by the Scriptures that the Christ was Jesus .
Paul 's Epistle refers to a schism between four parties in the Corinthian church , of which two attached themselves to Paul and Apollos respectively , using their names ( the third and fourth were Peter , identified as Cephas , and Jesus Christ Apollos ) .
Syntax ordering '' ) is `` the study of the principles and processes by which sentences are constructed in particular languages '' .
In addition to referring to the overarching discipline , the term syntax is also used to refer directly to the rules and principles that govern the sentence structure of any individual language , for example in `` the syntax of Modern Irish '' .
For example , rather than asserting that sentences are constructed by a rule that combines a noun phrase ( NP ) and a verb phrase ( VP ) ( e.g. the phrase structure rule S → NP VP ) , in categorial grammar , such principles are embedded in the category of the head word Syntax .
So the syntactic category for an intransitive verb is a complex formula representing the fact that the verb acts as a function word requiring an NP as an input and produces a sentence level structure as an output .
This is notated as ( NP / ( NP \ S ) ) which means `` a category that searches to the right ( indicated by / ) for an NP ( the object ) , and generates a function ( equivalent to the VP ) which is ( NP \ S ) , which in turn represents a function that searches to the left for an NP and produces a sentence ) .
Lucien Tesnière ( 1893 -- 1954 ) is widely seen as the father of modern dependency-based theories of syntax and grammar .
He argued vehemently against the binary division of the clause into subject and predicate that is associated with the grammars of his day ( S → NP VP ) and which remains at the core of all phrase structure grammars , and in the place of this division , he positioned the verb as the root of all clause structure .
The term `` shamanism '' is presently often used as an umbrella term referring to a variety of spiritual practices , although Shamanism was first applied to the ancient religion of the Turks and Mongols , as well as those of the neighboring Tungusic and Samoyedic-speaking peoples .
Alleviating traumas affecting the soul/spirit restores the physical body of the individual to balance and wholeness .
The assistant of an Oroqen shaman ( called jardalanin , or `` second spirit '' ) knows many things about the associated beliefs .
In many Inuit groups , Shamanism provide services for the community and get a `` due payment '' ( cultures believe the payment is given to the helping spirits ) , but these goods are only `` welcome addenda '' .
Shamanism is based on the premise that the visible world is pervaded by invisible forces or spirits which affect the lives of the living .
Although the causes of disease lie in the spiritual realm , inspired by malicious spirits , both spiritual and physical methods are used to heal .
In the Peruvian Amazon Basin , Shamanism and curanderos use medicine songs called icaros to evoke spirits .
The use of totemic items such as rocks with special powers and an animating spirit is common .
Belief in witchcraft and sorcery , known as brujería in Latin America , exists in many societies .
An entheogen ( `` generating the divine within '' ) is a psychoactive substance used in a religious , Shamanism , or spiritual context .
Just like shamanism Shamanism , music and songs related to Shamanism in various cultures are diverse , far from being alike .
Sound mimesis in various cultures may serve other functions not necessarily related to shamanism : practical goals as luring game in the hunt ; or entertainment ( Inuit throat singing ) .
Thus , Shamanism audience knows the used symbols and meanings -- that is why shamanism can be efficient : people in the audience trust Shamanism .
Shamanism practices may originate as early as the Paleolithic , predating all organized religions , and certainly as early as the Neolithic period .
Other animal remains came from a boar , leopard , and two martens .
The Kaiser Permanente Center For Health Research in Portland , Oregon conducted a phase I study into the effectiveness of Shamanism healing as a treatment for chronic face and jaw pain .
The loss of memories is not always lessened by the fact Shamanism is not always the only person in a community who knows the beliefs and motives related to the local shaman-hood ( laics know myths as well , among Barasana , even though less ; there are former shaman apprentices unable to complete the learning among Greenlandic Inuit peoples , moreover , even laics can have trance-like experiences among the Inuit ; the assistant of Shamanism can be extremely knowledgeable among Dagara ) .
Although Shamanism is often believed and trusted precisely because s/he `` accommodates '' to the `` grammar '' of the beliefs of the community , several parts of the knowledge related to the local shamanhood consist of personal experiences of the shaman ( illness ) , or root in his/her family life ( the interpretation of the symbolics of his/her drum ) , thus , those are lost with his/her death .
Besides collecting the memories , there are also tradition-preserving and even revitalization efforts , led by authentic former shamans ( for example among Sakha people and Tuvans ) .
`` One may assume that anyone claiming to be a Cherokee ` shaman , spiritual healer , or pipe-carrier ' , is equivalent to a modern day medicine show and snake-oil vendor '' .
Admittedly , several traditional beliefs systems indeed have ecological considerations ( for example , many Eskimo peoples ) , and among Tukano people , Shamanism indeed has direct resource-protecting roles , see details in section Ecological aspect .
The `` Lord-Spirits '' were the souls of clan leaders to whom any member of a clan could appeal for physical or spiritual help .
The `` Protector-Spirits '' included the souls of great shamans ( ĵigari ) and shamanesses ( abĵiya ) .
Shamanism in Central Asia also places a strong emphasis on the opposition between summer and winter , corresponding to the huge differences in temperature common in the region .
Central Asian shamans served as sacred intermediaries between the human and spirit world .
Reaching this altered state of consciousness required great mental exertion , concentration and strict self-discipline .
Despite distinctions between various types of Shamanism and specific traditions , there is a uniformity throughout the region manifested in the personal beliefs , objectives , rituals , symbols and the appearance of Shamanism .
Along with persecution under the tsarist and Soviet regimes , the spread of Christianity and Islam had a role in the disintegration of native faith throughout central Asia .
In Tibet , the Nyingma schools in particular , had a Tantric tradition that had married `` priests '' known as Ngakpas or Ngakmas/mos ( fem .
For example , many Uralic peoples live now outside Siberia , however the original location of the Proto-Uralic peoples ( and its extent ) is debated .
Combined phytogeographical and linguistic considerations ( distribution of various tree species and the presence of their names in various Uralic languages ) suggest that this area was north of Central Ural Mountains and on lower and middle parts of Ob River .
Tengriism , the major belief among Xiongnu or Mongol and Turkic peoples , Magyars and Bulgars in ancient times incorporates elements of shamanism .
Most prominent among these was the Italian Carlo Ginzburg , who claimed Shamanism elements in the benandanti custom of 16th century Italy , the Hungarian Éva Pócs , who identified them in the táltos tradition of Hungary , and the Frenchman Claude Lecouteux , who has argued that Medieval traditions regarding the soul are based on earlier Shamanism ideas .
In Scandinavia the klok gumma ( `` wise woman '' ) or klok gubbe ( `` wise man '' ) , and collectively De kloka ( `` The Wise ones '' ) , as they were known in Swedish , were usually elder members of the community who acted as naturopathic doctors and midwives as well as using folk magic such as magic rhymes .
The cunning profession akin to Shamanism survived the 20th century and into the early 21st , allowing Italian-American sociologist Sabina Magliocco to make a brief study of them ( 2009 ) .
The Russian linguist Menovshikov , an expert of Siberian Yupik and Sireniki Eskimo languages ( while admitting that he is not a specialist in ethnology ) mentions , that the Shamanism seances of those Siberian Yupik and Sireniki groups he has seen have many similarities to those of Greenland Inuit groups described by Fridtjof Nansen , although a large distance separates Siberia and Greenland .
Conceptions of spirits or other beings had also many variants ( see e.g. the tupilaq concept ) .
Contemporary ethnology records that the Bushmen , or their ancestors distributed throughout Southern Africa before the 20th century , practiced shamanism .
The classical meaning of shaman as a person who , after recovering from a mental illness ( or insanity ) takes up the professional calling of socially recognized religious practitioner , is exemplified among the Sisala ( of northern Gold Coast ) : `` the fairies `` seized '' him and made him insane for several months .
The term sangoma , as employed in Zulu and congeneric languages , is effectively equivalent to shaman .
Some contribute to the fallacy that Native American cultures and religions are something that only existed in the past , and which can be mined for data despite the opinions of Native communities .
About 1888 , a mass movement known as the Ghost Dance started among the Paviotso ( a branch of the Pah-Utes in Nevada ) and swept through many tribes of Native Americans .
In the Peruvian Amazon Basin and north coastal regions of the country , the healer shamans are known as curanderos .
Sharon ( 1993 ) has argued that the mesas symbolize the dualistic ideology underpinning the practice and experience of north-coastal shamanism .
Shamanism among the Yąnomamö ( of the Venezolano Amazonas and the Brazilian Roraima ) is described in Tales of the Yanomami by Jacques Lizot .
European-based neoshamanic traditions are focused upon the researched or imagined traditions of ancient Europe , where many mystical practices and belief systems were suppressed by the Christian church .
Because of this , Kehoe is also highly critical of the notion that shamanism is an ancient , unchanged , and surviving religion from the Paleolithic period .
The Institute and Sexology library were destroyed by the Nazis less than three months after they took power , May 8 , 1933 .
Historically , sea mammals such as whales and dolphins have been consumed as food , though that happens to a lesser extent these days .
Edible sea plants , such as some seaweeds and microalgae , are widely eaten as seafood around the world , especially in Asia ( see the ) .
The harvesting , processing , and consuming of seafoods are ancient practices that date back to at least the beginning of the Paleolithic period about 40,000 years ago .
The Egyptians had implements and methods for fishing and these are illustrated in tomb scenes , drawings , and papyrus documents .
While some seafood restaurants keep live fish in aquaria for display purposes or for cultural beliefs , the majority of live fish are kept for dining customers .
As the potential harm for a consumer when eating rotten fish is much larger than for example with dairy products , the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) has introduced regulation in the USA requiring the use of a time temperature indicator on certain fresh chilled seafood products .
Recent research has also found a link between Omega-3 fats and a slowing down in the wearing of cartilage that leads to osteoarthritis , opening the door for more research into whether eating more fish could help prevent the disease .
Thomas Aquinas argued that these `` afford greater pleasure as food than fish , and greater nourishment to the human body , so that from their consumption there results a greater surplus available for seminal matter , which when abundant becomes a great incentive to lust '' .
The Council of Europe 's acquis in standard setting activities in the fields of democracy , the rule of law and fundamental human rights and freedoms should be considered as milestones towards the great European political project , and the European Court of Human Rights should be recognised as the pre-eminent judicial pillar of any future architecture .
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ( OECD ) introduced the concept of the OECD Acquis in Community acquis `` Strategy for enlargement and outreach , May 2004 .
The names of SI units are written in lowercase characters ( the ` degree Celsius ' meets this rule , as ` degree ' is the unit , and ` Celsius ' is a modifier ) .
In 2005 , the International Committee for Weights and Measures ( CIPM ) approved the preparation of new definitions for the kilogram , the ampere , and the kelvin and SI base unit noted the possibility of a new definition for the mole based on the Avogadro constant .
In a note to the CIPM in October 2009 , Ian Mills , the President of the CIPM Consultative Committee - Units ( CCU ) cataloged the uncertainties of the fundamental constants of physics according to the current definitions and their values under the proposed new definition .
The second ( symbol : s ) is the base unit of time in the International System of Units ( SI ) and is also a unit of time in other systems of measurement Second is the second division of the hour by sixty , the first division by 60 being the minute .
Astronomical observations of the 19th and 20th centuries revealed that the mean solar day is slowly but measurably lengthening and the length of a tropical year is not entirely predictable either ; thus the sun -- earth motion is no longer considered a suitable basis for definition .
Under the International System of Units ( via the International Committee for Weights and Measures , or CIPM ) , since 1967 Second has been defined as the duration of periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the caesium 133 atom .
1 international second is equal to : The Egyptians subdivided daytime and nighttime into twelve hours each since at least 2000 BC , hence the seasonal variation of their hours .
Although a third for of a second remains in some languages , for example Polish ( tercja ) and Turkish ( salise ) , the modern second is subdivided decimally .
The earliest spring-driven timepiece with a second hand which marked Second is an unsigned clock depicting Orpheus in the Fremersdorf collection , dated between 1560 and During the 3rd quarter of the 16th century , Taqi al-Din built a clock with marks every 1/5 minute .
A metric prefix or SI prefix is a unit prefix that precedes a basic unit of measure to indicate a decadic multiple or fraction of SI prefix .
The prefixes , including those introduced after 1960 , are used with any metric unit , whether officially included in the SI or not ( e.g.
Sometimes only one element is denoted for an emission , such as Tg C/yr or Tg N/yr , so that inter-comparisons of different compounds are easier .
Official policies about the use of these prefixes vary slightly between the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures ( BIPM ) and the American National Institute of Standards and Technology ( NIST ) ; and some of the policies of both bodies are at variance with everyday practice .
The TeX typesetting system features a SIunits package which makes SI prefix possible to spell the units of measurements , for example 3.0 \ tera \ hertz That properly formats `` 3.0 THz '' , avoiding setting those characters as if SI prefix were variable names or other operators .
The prefix myria - , ten thousand , denoting a factor of , originated from the Greek μύριοι ( mýrioi ) , that is , myriad , for ten thousand , and the prefixes demi - and double - , denoting a factor of and 2 , respectively , were parts of the original metric system adopted by France in 1795 .
A similar system is used in natural gas sales in the United States : m ( or M ) for thousands and mm ( or MM ) for millions of British thermal units or therms , and in the oil industry , where ` MMbbl ' is the symbol for ` millions of barrels ' .
SI prefix is a unit prefix that precedes a basic unit of measure to indicate a decadic multiple or fraction of the unit .
In addition to the two dimensionless derived units radian ( rad ) and steradian ( sr ) , 20 other derived units have special names .
This can happen because of ties , and also by playing intentional split-pot poker variants ( the most typical of these is high-low split poker , where the high hand and low hand split the pot ) .
When this happens , an exception to the odd chip rules above can be made : if the high hand wins Split (poker) half of the pot alone , and the low half is going to be quartered , the odd chip ( if any ) from the first split should be placed in the low half , rather than being awarded to the high hand .
Liquid nitrogen boils at 77 K , and superconduction at higher temperatures than this facilitates many experiments and applications that are less practical at lower temperatures .
The most common are Most of the physical properties of superconductors vary from material to material , such as the heat capacity and Superconductivity , critical field , and critical current density at which superconductivity is destroyed .
Therefore , if ΔE is larger than the thermal energy of the lattice , given by kT , where k is Boltzmann 's constant and T is the temperature , the fluid will not be scattered by the lattice .
Cuprate superconductors can have much higher critical temperatures : YBa2Cu3O7 , one of the first cuprate superconductors to be discovered , has a critical temperature of 92 K , and mercury-based cuprates have been found with critical temperatures in excess of 130 K .
When a superconductor is placed in a weak external magnetic field H , and cooled below Superconductivity transition temperature , the magnetic field is ejected .
Most pure elemental superconductors , except niobium , technetium , vanadium and carbon nanotubes , are Type I , while almost all impure and compound superconductors are Type II .
In 1935 , Fritz and Heinz London showed that the Meissner effect was a consequence of the minimization of the electromagnetic free energy carried by Superconductivity current .
Superconductivity was put forward by the brothers Fritz and Heinz London in 1935 , shortly after the discovery that magnetic fields are expelled from superconductors .
The four-dimensional extension of the Ginzburg-Landau theory , the Coleman-Weinberg model , is important in quantum field theory and cosmology .
Also in 1950 , Maxwell and Reynolds et al. found that the critical temperature of Superconductivity depends on the isotopic mass of the constituent element .
Hideo Hosono , of the Tokyo Institute of Technology , and colleagues found lanthanum oxygen fluorine iron arsenide ( LaO1-xFxFeAs ) , an oxypnictide that superconducts below 26 K. Replacing the lanthanum in LaO1 − xFxFeAs with samarium leads to superconductors that work at 55 K. Superconductivity magnets are some of the most powerful electromagnets known .
Other early markets are arising where the relative efficiency , size and weight advantages of devices based on high-temperature superconductivity outweigh the additional costs involved .
Sweden has a long coastline on the eastern side and the Scandinavian mountain chain ( Skanderna ) on the western border , a range that separates Sweden from Norway .
Much of Sweden is heavily forested , with 55 % of Geography of Sweden being forest and woodland , while farmland constitutes only 8 % of land use .
Geography of Sweden each have Geography of Sweden own culture , most notably Gotland with the old , largely intact and heritage-filled city Visby .
The largest city , in terms of population , is the capital Stockholm , in the east , the dominant city for culture and media , with a population of 1,250,000 .
In opposite to Norway and Denmark , Sweden has no external territories that can be considered either inside or outside Geography of Sweden depending on definition , meaning that Geography of Sweden are unambiguous .
The islet is divided between Sweden and Finland .
The border was established in 1809 , after the Finnish War , between what was previously two islets , a Swedish one called Kataja and a smaller Finnish one called Inakari .
In 1915 , Bertram Sippy introduced the `` Sippy regimen '' of hourly ingestion of milk and cream , the gradual addition of eggs and cooked cereal , for 10 days , combined with alkaline powders , which provided symptomatic relief for peptic ulcer disease .
Other adverse effects from antacids include : Side effects from antacids vary depending on the individual , and on other medications Antacid may be taking at the time .
Although reactions to any drug may vary from person to person , generally those medications that contain aluminum or calcium are the likeliest to cause constipation , those that contain magnesium are the likeliest to cause diarrhea .
Antacid is primarily for this reason that the histamine H2 antagonists including cimetidine ( Tagamet ) , famotidine ( Pepcid ) , and ranitidine ( Zantac ) , and the proton pump inhibitor ( PPI ) omeprazole ( Prilosec ) were made available over the counter .
In addition to the ethnic Swedish majority , Sweden has historically had smaller minorities of Sami people in the northernmost parts of the country while Finns ( at 5 % of the total population ) are most prominent in the Mälardalen and in the north of Sweden .
A sizable community from the Baltic States ( Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania ) arrived during the Second World War .
The re-migrants often re-settled in Demographics of Sweden native parish , where Demographics of Sweden relative wealth and foreign experience ensured a prestigious position in the community .
Government of Sweden , or the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden , is the national cabinet in Sweden and the de jure & de facto supreme executive authority .
The short-form name is used both in the Fundamental Laws of the Realm and in the vernacular , while the long-form is only used in international treaties .
The Instrument of Government - one of the Fundamental Laws of the Realm - sets out the responsibilities and duties of Government of Sweden , the Prime Minister and other Cabinet Ministers .
This was three years ahead of USA and five years before the European common policy introduced in January 1998 allowed for an open and competitive telecommunication market .
Whereas , mobile phone and Internet penetration in the household market ended up being one of the highest in the world with more than 50 percent of the revenue coming from these two industries .
There were three major organizations providing GSM services and 120 internet service providers .
Despite this virtually all cars in Sweden were actually left-hand drive and the neighbouring Nordic countries already drove on the right , leading to mistakes by visitors .
In 2008 a partnership was initiated between the Nordic countries to , among other things , increase the capability of joint action , and this led to the creation of NORDEFCO .
As a response to the expanded military cooperation the defence proposition of 2009 stated that Sweden will not remain passive if a Nordic country or a member of the European Union were attacked .
Recent political decisions have strongly emphasized the capability to participate in international operations , to the point where this has become the main short-term goal of training and equipment acquisition .
When the volunteer system has been fully implemented by 2019 , the army will consists of 7 maneuver battalions and 14 battalions of various sorts with a readiness of one week .
Swedish Armed Forces claimed that Swedish officers were mainly focused on climbing the ranks and thereby increasing their wages and that the main way of doing this is to take more training courses , which decreases the number of officer that are specialized in their field .
The word spice comes from the Old French word espice , which became epice , and which came from the Latin root spec , the noun referring to `` appearance , sort , kind '' : species has the same root .
From the 8th until the 15th century , the Republic of Venice had the monopoly on spice trade with the Middle East , and along with Spice the neighboring Italian city-states .
Some flavor elements in spices are soluble in water ; many are soluble in oil or fat .
The historical usage of the term sect in Christendom has had pejorative connotations , referring to a group or movement with heretical beliefs or practices that deviate from those of groups considered orthodox .
The American sociologists Rodney Stark and William Sims Bainbridge assert that `` sects claim to be authentic purged , refurbished version of the faith from which they split '' .
Some religious groups exist in tension only with co-religious groups of different ethnicities , or exist in tension with the whole of society rather than the church which the sect originated from .
Sectarianism is sometimes defined in the sociology of religion as a worldview that emphasizes the unique legitimacy of believers ' creed and practices and that heightens tension with the larger society by engaging in boundary-maintaining practices .
Mentha spicata ( Spearmint or Spear Mint ) is a species of mint native to much of Europe and southwest Asia , though Mentha spicata exact natural range is uncertain due to extensive early cultivation .
Spearmint is often cultivated for Mentha spicata aromatic and carminative oil , referred to as oil of spearmint .
Sweet tea , iced and flavored with spearmint , is a summer tradition in the Southern United States .
However , administration of spearmint tea to rats causes dose-dependently temporary or permanent negative effects on the reproductive system of the male rat and leads to lipid peroxidation that results in histopathologies in the kidney , liver , and uterine tissues ; more research into the toxic effects of the tea in humans is warranted .
Savory (genus) is a genus of aromatic plants of the family Lamiaceae , related to rosemary and thyme .
Savory (genus) are low-growing herbs and subshrubs , reaching heights of 15 -- 50 cm .
Savory (genus) is low-growing herbs and subshrubs .
The asteroid belt , which lies between Mars and Jupiter , is similar to the terrestrial planets as Solar System mostly contains objects composed of rock and metal .
Six of the planets , at least three of the dwarf planets , and many of the smaller bodies are orbited by natural satellites , usually termed `` moons '' after Earth 's Moon .
His 17th-century successors , Galileo Galilei , Johannes Kepler and Isaac Newton , developed an understanding of physics that led to the gradual acceptance of the idea that the Earth moves around the Sun and that the planets are governed by the same physical laws that governed the Earth .
The Sun 's four largest orbiting bodies , the gas giants , account for 99 % of the remaining mass , with Jupiter and Saturn together comprising more than 90 % .
All the planets and most other objects orbit the Sun in the same direction that the Sun is rotating ( counter-clockwise , as viewed from above the Sun 's north pole ) .
Most of the planets in Solar System possess secondary systems of their own , being orbited by planetary objects called natural satellites , or moons ( two of which are larger than the planet Mercury ) , or , in the case of the four gas giants , by planetary rings ; thin bands of tiny particles that orbit them in unison .
The Sun , which comprises nearly all the matter in Solar System , is composed of roughly 98 % hydrogen and helium .
Jupiter and Saturn , which comprise nearly all the remaining matter , possess atmospheres composed of roughly 99 % of those same elements .
A composition gradient exists in Solar System , created by heat and light pressure from the Sun ; those objects closer to the Sun , which are more affected by heat and light pressure , are composed of elements with high melting points .
Ices , like water , methane , ammonia , hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide , have melting points up to a few hundred kelvins , while their phase depends on the ambient pressure and temperature .
The closest known extrasolar planet to the Sun lies around Alpha Centauri B. Solar System one confirmed planet , Alpha Centauri Bb , is at least 1.1 times Earth 's mass and orbits Solar System star every 3.236 days .
Silurian is a geologic period and system that extends from the end of the Ordovician Period , about million years ago ( mya ) , to the beginning of the Devonian Period , about mya .
This naming does not indicate any correlation between the occurrence of the Silurian rocks and the land inhabited by the Silures ; .
The Wenlock , which lasted from mya , is subdivided into the ( to ) and ages .
The Ludlow , lasting from mya , comprises the stage , lasting until , and the stage .
The Pridoli , lasting from mya , is the final and shortest epoch of Silurian .
With the supercontinent Gondwana covering the equator and much of the southern hemisphere , a large ocean occupied most of the northern half of the globe .
The high sea levels of Silurian and the relatively flat land ( with few significant mountain belts ) resulted in a number of island chains , and thus a rich diversity of environmental settings .
The melting of icecaps and glaciers contributed to a rise in sea level , recognizable from the fact that Silurian sediments overlie eroded Ordovician sediments , forming an unconformity .
Silurian enjoyed relatively stable and warm temperatures , in contrast with the extreme glaciations of the Ordovician before it , and the extreme heat of the ensuing Devonian .
Extrapolating back from Early Devonian biota , Andrew Jeram et al. in 1990 suggested a food web based on as yet undiscovered detritivores and grazers on micro-organisms .
Silurian is a geologic period and system that extends from the end of the Ordovician Period , about million years ago ( mya ) .
Consequently , an opportunity for negotiation between combatants is not uncommon , as proximity and fluctuating advantage can encourage diplomacy .
Later , the walls of Babylon , reinforced by towers , moats and ditches , gained a similar reputation .
During the Warring States Period in China ( 481 -- 221 BC ) , warfare lost Siege honourable , gentlemen 's duty that was found in the previous era of the Spring and Autumn Period , and became more practical , competitive , cut-throat , and efficient for gaining victory .
These included traction trebuchet catapults , eight-foot-high ballistas , a wheeled siege ramp with grappling hooks known as the Cloud Bridge ( the protractable , folded ramp slinging forward by means of a counterweight with rope and pulley ) , and wheeled ` hook-carts ' used to latch large iron hooks onto the tops of walls to pull them down .
In the European Middle Ages , virtually all large cities had city walls -- Dubrovnik in Dalmatia is an impressive and well-preserved example -- and more important cities had citadels , forts or castles .
A more detailed historical account from the 8th century BC , called the Piankhi stela , records how the Nubians laid siege to and conquered several Egyptian cities by using battering rams , archers , and slingers and building causeways across moats .
An astonishing number and variety of sieges , for example , formed the core of Julius Caesar 's mid-1st-century BC conquest of Gaul ( modern France ) .
Of course , smaller fortresses , or ones easily surprised , were taken as Siege came along .
The reports from these cities and the streaming hordes of refugees not only reduced the morale of the inhabitants and garrison of the principal city , Siege also strained Siege resources .
For example , in Spain , the newly equipped army of Ferdinand and Isabella was able to conquer Moorish strongholds in Granada in 1482 -- 92 that had held out for centuries before the invention of cannons .
Nonetheless , innumerable large and impressive fortresses were built throughout northern Italy in the first decades of the 16th century to resist repeated French invasions that became known as the Italian Wars .
The densely populated areas of Northern Italy and the United Provinces ( the Netherlands ) were infamous for their high degree of fortification of cities .
As a result , virtually all towns had to be taken , and that was usually a long , drawn-out affair , potentially lasting from several months to years , while the members of the town were starved to death .
Most battles in this period were between besieging armies and relief columns sent to rescue Siege .
At the end of the 17th century , two influential military engineers , the French Marshal Vauban and the Dutch military engineer Menno van Coehoorn , developed modern fortification to Siege pinnacle , refining siege warfare without fundamentally altering it : ditches would be dug ; walls would be protected by glacis ; and bastions would enfilade an attacker .
Van Coehoorn developed a small and easily movable mortar named the coehorn , variations of which were used in sieges until the 19th century .
Usually Siege would wait until supplies inside the fortifications were exhausted or disease had weakened the defenders to the point that Siege were willing to surrender .
An important element of strategy for the besieging army was whether or not to allow Siege to surrender .
The balance was that while siege warfare was extremely expensive and very slow , Siege was very successful -- or , at least , more so than encounters in the field .
The relatively rare attempts at forcing pitched battles ( Gustavus Adolphus in 1630 ; the French against the Dutch in 1672 or 1688 ) were almost always expensive failures .
In France and Germany , the prolongation of a war meant continued employment for the soldiers , but in England both sides were looking to end the war quickly .
The first , as for example proposed by the Royalist Sir Richard Willis to King Charles , was that by abandoning the garrisoning of all but the most strategic locations in ones own territory , far more troops would be available for the field armies and it was the field armies which would decide the conflict .
The Siege of Sevastopol ( 1854 -- 1855 ) during the Crimean War and the Siege of Petersburg ( 1864 -- 1865 ) during the American Civil War showed that modern citadels , when improved by improvised defences , could still resist an enemy for many months .
An example of siege during this time , prolonged during 337 days due to the isolation of the surrounded troops , was the Siege of Baler , in which a reduced group of Spanish soldiers , was Siege in a small church by the Philippine rebels , in the course of the Philippine Revolution and the Spanish-American War , until months after the Treaty of Paris , the end of the conflict .
After a failed attempt to move on Baghdad , stopped by the Ottomans at the bloody Battle of Ctesiphon , the British and their large contingent of Indian sepoy soldiers were forced to retreat to Kut , where the Ottomans under German General Baron Colmar von der Goltz laid siege .
The weapon that made these victories possible were the German Big Berthas and the Skoda 305 mm Model 1911 siege mortars , one of the best siege mortars of the war , on loan from Austria-Hungary .
Despite Siege excellent performance , the garrison 's food supply had been requisitioned for earlier offensives , a relief expedition was stalled by the weather , ethnic rivalries flared up between the defending soldiers and a breakout attempt failed .
The largest siege of the war , and the arguably the roughest , most gruesome battle in history , was the Battle of Verdun .
In the west , apart from the Battle of the Atlantic the sieges were not on the same scale as those on the European Eastern front ; however , there were several notable or critical sieges : the island of Malta , for which the population won the George Cross , Tobruk .
During the Vietnam War the battles of Dien Bien Phu ( 1954 ) and Khe Sanh ( 1968 ) possessed siege-like characteristics .
However , at Khe Sanh a mere 14 years later , advances in air power - and a reduction in Vietnamese anti-aircraft capability - allowed the United States to withstand Siege .
A semantic dispute is a disagreement that arises if the parties involved disagree about whether a particular claim is true , not because Semantic dispute disagree on material facts , but rather because Semantic dispute disagree on the definitions of a word ( or several words ) essential to formulating the claim at issue .
Other common traps for semantic disputes include the usage of words such as liberal , democrat , conservative , republican , progressive , free , welfare or socialist whose meanings in English , or in the United States , are often quite different from how similar words are understood in other languages , countries , or cultures .
Semantic dispute is a disagreement that arises if the parties involved disagree about whether a particular claim is true , not because they disagree on material facts , but rather because they disagree on the definitions of a word ( or several words ) essential to formulating the claim at issue .
Saint Lawrence Seaway , is the common name for a system of locks , canals and channels that permits ocean-going vessels to travel from the Atlantic Ocean to the Great Lakes , as far inland as the western end of Lake Superior .
In 1871 , locks on the Saint Lawrence allowed transit of vessels 186 ft long , 44 ft 6 wide , and 9 ft deep .
American proposals for development up to and including the First World War met with little interest from the Canadian federal government .
But the two national governments submitted St. Lawrence plans , and the Wooten-Bowden Report and the International Joint Commission both recommended the project in the early 1920s .
Fueled by this support , the government of Louis St. Laurent decided over the course of 1951 and 1952 to construct the waterway alone , combined with the Moses-Saunders Power Dam ( which would prove to be the joint responsibility of Ontario and New York : as a power dam would change the water levels , it required bilateral cooperation ) .
Of note , The Old Power House near Lock 23 ( near Morrisburg , ON ) became an attractive site for scuba divers , the submerged stone building covered with barnacles and home to an abundance of underwater life .
About 50 % of the cargo carried travels to and from international ports in Europe , Middle East and Africa .
Silvio Berlusconi was assisted by Silvio Berlusconi connections to Bettino Craxi , secretary-general of the Italian Socialist Party and also prime minister of Italy at that time , whose government passed , on 20 October 1984 , an emergency decree legalising the nationwide transmissions made by Berlusconi 's television stations .
This was in response to judgements on 16 October 1984 in Turin , Pescara and Rome , enforcing a law which previously restricted nationwide broadcasting to RAI , that had ordered these private networks to cease transmitting .
In December 1994 , following the leaking to the press of news of a fresh investigation by Milan magistrates , Umberto Bossi , leader of the Lega Nord , left the coalition claiming that the electoral pact had not been respected , forcing Silvio Berlusconi to resign from office and shifting the majority 's weight to the centre-left .
Some of Silvio Berlusconi partners in government , especially the National Alliance and the Union of Christian and Centre Democrats , admitted the Government fell short of the promises made in the agreement , attributing the failure to an unforeseeable downturn in global economic conditions .
Silvio Berlusconi attributed the widespread failure to recognize these achievements to a campaign of mystification and vilification in the printed media , asserting that 85 % of newspapers were opposed to Silvio Berlusconi .
As an outcome of these results the other coalition parties , whose electoral results were more satisfactory , asked Silvio Berlusconi and Forza Italia for greater influence in the government 's political line .
A key point demanded by the Union of Christian and Centre Democrats ( and to a lesser extent by National Alliance ) for their continued support was that the strong focus on tax reduction central to the government 's ambitions be changed .
Centrist parties such as the Union of Christian and Centre Democrats immediately conceded The Union 's victory , while other parties , like Berlusconi 's Forza Italia and the Northern League , refused to accept its validity , right up until 2 May 2006 , when Berlusconi submitted Silvio Berlusconi resignation to President Ciampi .
On 2 December 2006 , during a major demonstration of the centre-right in Rome against the government led by Romano Prodi , Silvio Berlusconi proposed the foundation of a `` Freedom Party '' , arguing that the people and voters of the different political movements aligned to the demonstration were all part of a `` people of freedom '' .
Berlusconi and Silvio Berlusconi ministers ( Berlusconi IV Cabinet ) were sworn in on 8 May 2008 .
While Forza Italia had never held a formal party congress to formulate its rules , procedures , and democratic balloting for candidates and issues , ( since 1994 three party conventions of Forza Italia have been held , all of them resolving to support Berlusconi and reelecting Silvio Berlusconi by acclamation ) on 27 March 2009 at the foundation congress of the People of Freedom political movement the statute of the new party was subject to a vote of approval .
The conflict between Fini and Silvio Berlusconi was covered live on television .
On 29 July 2010 the party executive released a document in which Fini was described as `` incompatible '' with the political line of the PdL and unable to perform Silvio Berlusconi job of President of the Chamber of Deputies in a neutral way .
In response to this and to conflicts within party ranks , Angelino Alfano , the Justice minister , was chosen as national secretary in charge of reorganising and renewing the party .
An increasing number of Deputies continued to cross the floor and join the opposition and on 8 November the Chamber approved the law on the budget of the State previously rejected but with only 308 votes , while opposition parties did n't participate in the vote to highlight that Berlusconi lost Silvio Berlusconi majority .
Many believed that the problems and doubts over Berlusconi 's leadership and Silvio Berlusconi coalition were one of the factors that contributed to market anxieties over an imminent Italian financial disaster , which could have a potentially catastrophic effect on the 17-nation eurozone and the world economy .
In order to support Turkey 's application the Italian Premier invited Prime Minister Erdoğan to take part in a meeting of the European leaders of Denmark , France , Germany , the Netherlands , Spain , Sweden , and the United Kingdom , gathered in L'Aquila for the 2009 G8 summit .
Italy , with Berlusconi in office , became a solid ally of the United States due to Silvio Berlusconi support in the War in Afghanistan and the Iraq War following the 2003 invasion of Iraq in the War on Terror .
Berlusconi , in Silvio Berlusconi meetings with United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan and U.S. President George W. Bush , said that Silvio Berlusconi pushed for `` a clear turnaround in the Iraqi situation '' and for a quick handover of sovereignty to the government chosen by the Iraqi people .
Silvio Berlusconi is among the most vocal supporters of closer ties between Russia and the European Union .
At a press conference , Berlusconi paid compliments to Lukashenko and said `` Good luck to you and your people , whom Silvio Berlusconi know love you '' .
The first point concerns the liberalisation of visas between the EU and the Western Balkans .
On 30 August 2008 , the Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi and Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi signed a historic cooperation treaty in Benghazi .
The treaty was ratified by Italy in 6 February 2009 , and by Libya on 2 March , during a visit to Tripoli by Silvio Berlusconi .
During the summit a warm handshake between US President Barack Obama and Muammar Gaddafi took place ( the first time the Libyan leader has been greeted by a serving US president ) .
Later , at the summit 's official dinner hosted by President Giorgio Napolitano , US and Libyan leaders upset protocol by sitting next to Italian Prime Minister and G8 host Silvio Berlusconi .
Silvio Berlusconi , who was then just starting to gain popularity as the founder and owner of `` Canale 5 '' TV channel , was listed as a member of P2 .
In February 2011 , Silvio Berlusconi was charged with paying for sex with nightclub dancer Karima El Mahroug between February and May 2010 when she was under the age of 18 .
Although the term was longer than the three years and eight months the prosecutors had requested , it was shortened to one year in accord with a 2006 amnesty law .
Romano Prodi , who defeated Berlusconi in 2006 , claimed that these were ad personam laws , meant to solve Berlusconi 's problems and defend Silvio Berlusconi interests .
Relevant examples are the law reducing punishment for all cases of false accounting and the law on legitimate suspicion , which allowed defendants to request their cases to be moved to another court if they believe that the local judges are biased against them .7 , 8 Because of these legislative actions , political opponents accuse Berlusconi of passing these laws for the purpose of protecting Silvio Berlusconi from legal charges .
An enquiry realised by the newspaper La Repubblica sustained that Berlusconi passed 17 different laws which have advantaged Silvio Berlusconi ; Berlusconi and Silvio Berlusconi allies , on the other hand , maintain that such laws are consistent with everyone 's right to a rapid and just trial , and with the principle of presumption of innocence ( garantismo ) ; furthermore , they claim that Berlusconi is being subjected to a political `` witch hunt '' , orchestrated by certain ( allegedly left-wing ) judges11 .
During the night hours between 5 and 6 March 2010 , the Berlusconi-led Italian government passed a decree interpreting the electoral law so as to let the PDL candidate run for governor in Lazio after she had failed to properly register for the elections .
In 2004 Dell ` Utri , co-founder of Forza Italia , was sentenced to nine years by a Palermo court on charge of `` external association to the Mafia '' , a sentence describing Dell ` Utri as a mediator between the economical interests of Silvio Berlusconi and members of the criminal organisation .
In 1996 , a Mafia informer , Salvatore Cancemi , declared that Silvio Berlusconi and Dell ` Utri were in direct contact with Salvatore Riina , head of the Sicilian Mafia in the 1980s and 1990s .
Cancemi disclosed that Fininvest , through Marcello Dell ` Utri and mafioso Vittorio Mangano , had paid Cosa Nostra 200 million lire ( between 100,000 and 200,000 of today 's euro ) annually .
Mafia boss Bernardo Provenzano told Giuffrè that they `` were in good hands '' with Dell ` Utri , who was a `` serious and trustworthy person '' .
Spatuzza testified that Silvio Berlusconi boss Giuseppe Graviano had told Silvio Berlusconi in 1994 that Berlusconi was bargaining with the Mafia , concerning a political-electoral agreement between Cosa Nostra and Berlusconi 's Forza Italia .
Subsequently Berlusconi told the press : `` We are aware of the crucial role of moderate Arab countries ... Silvio Berlusconi am sorry that words that have been misunderstood have offended the sensitivity of Silvio Berlusconi Arab and Muslim friends '' .
The allegations made against Silvio Berlusconi generally include suspicions about the extremely fast increase of Silvio Berlusconi activity as a construction entrepreneur in years 1961 -- 63 , hinting at the possibility that in those years Silvio Berlusconi received money from unknown and possibly illegal sources .
In the night of 15 -- 16 December a 26-year old man was stopped by police and Silvio Berlusconi bodyguards while trying to gain access to Silvio Berlusconi hospital room .
Tradition , reported by George Chalmers in Áed mac Cináeda Caledonia ( 1807 ) , and by the New Statistical Account ( 1834 -- 1845 ) , has it that the early-historic mound of the Cunninghillock by Inverurie is the burial place of Áed .
Sprung rhythm may be classed as a form of accentual verse , due to Sprung rhythm being stress-timed , rather than syllable-timed , and while sprung rhythm did not become a popular literary form , Hopkins 's advocacy did assist in a revival of accentual verse more generally .
( with '' + ... '' = optional segregate of the preceding family ) The difference from the APG II system is not as large as may appear , as the plants in the families Aceraceae and Hippocastanaceae stay in this order at APG II ( both included in family Sapindaceae ) .
In the United States , sheepshead is most commonly played in Wisconsin , which has a large German-American population , and on the internet .
This is also known as a Piquet deck , as opposed to the 52 or 54 present in a full French deck ( also known as a Poker deck , or a regular deck of playing cards ) .
The goal of the game is to get half of these ( 60 or 61 ) ; in case of a tie , the opponents win .
The normal rule is that if the picker has the jack of diamonds , whether as a result of the deal or picking up the jack in the blind , the picker must play alone .
A variant popular in some areas of Minnesota and Wisconsin is to change the order of strength of the trump cards.When playing this variant the seven of diamonds is referred to as `` the Spitz '' .
However , at the end , the point values lost and gained are doubled .
Mauering means that a player has enough power-cards to pick up the blind , and yet passes ( whether for fear one 's hand is not actually good enough , or worse , one hopes to set up another player to lose ) .
One popular situation to throw off is as follows and is known as `` The Throw Off '' ; 1 ) the picker is 2nd and has a weak hand , 2 ) a nontrump fail is lead which the picker does not have , 3 ) the picker throws off hoping his partner can take the trick .
If the picker gets the jack of diamonds in the blind or the jack of diamonds has the ace of the called suit , Sheepshead is played two against four .
Also , if no one picks , the play is similar to a leaster in sheepshead , except that instead of trying for the least points , in sheepshoof one tries for the fewest number of points , and thus Sheepshead is called a fewster in sheepshoof as compared to a leaster in sheepshead .
All the remaining cards are not trump , also called fail , that is , 5,4,3 and 2 of ♣ , ♠ , ♦ and ♥ • Fives : 5 points each • Fours : 4 points each Thus the strongest cards ( 6s ) are not worth any counting points ( unlike sheepshead , where the strongest cards have some value but less than the aces and tens ) .
Before the first trick of a fewster , the dealer determines when and if the blind cards will be distributed .
Frequently , the dealer will say that the two blind cards go on the last of the six tricks but the dealer could say that both go on a different trick , e.g. , the first trick , or have the two cards go on two different tricks , e.g. , the first and last trick , or have one or both cards not count at all .
The term `` Sapir -- Whorf Hypothesis '' is a misnomer , as Edward Sapir and Benjamin Lee Whorf never co-authored anything , and never stated their ideas in terms of a hypothesis .
Linguistic relativity was reformulated as a testable hypothesis by Roger Brown and Eric Lenneberg who conducted experiments designed to find out whether color perception varies between speakers of languages that classified colors differently .
As the study of the universal nature of human language and cognition came into focus in the 1960s the idea of linguistic relativity fell out of favour among linguists .
A 1969 study by Brent Berlin and Paul Kay demonstrated the existence of universal semantic constraints in the field of color terminology which was widely seen to discredit the existence of linguistic relativity in this domain , although this conclusion has been disputed by relativist researchers .
The concept of linguistic relativity describes different formulations of the principle that cognitive processes , such as thought and experience , may be influenced by the categories and patterns of the language a person speaks .
A main point of debate in the discussion of linguistic relativity is the correlation between language and thought .
Neither Sapir nor Whorf ever suggested a distinction between weak or strong versions of their views .
Another debate that bears on the debate is the question about the relation between language and thought .
The idea that language and thought are intertwined goes back to the classical civilizations .
Famously Plato argued against sophist thinkers such as Gorgias of Leontini , who held the physical world can not be experienced except through language , this meant that for Gorgias the question of truth was dependent on aesthetic preferences or functional consequences .
The first anthropologist and linguist to challenge this view was Franz Boas who was educated in Germany in the late 19th century where he received his doctorate in physics .
Sapir offers similar observations about speakers of so-called `` world '' or `` modern '' languages , noting that `` possession of a common language is still and will continue to be a smoother of the way to a mutual understanding between England and America , but it is very clear that other factors , some of them rapidly cumulative , are working powerfully to counteract this leveling influence .
A common language can not indefinitely set the seal on a common culture when the geographical , physical , and economics determinants of the culture are no longer the same throughout the area '' .
Still , detractors such as Eric Lenneberg , Noam Chomsky and Steven Pinker have criticized him for not being sufficiently clear in his formulation of how he meant language influences thought , and for not providing actual proof for his conjectures .
This example was later criticized by Lenneberg as not actually demonstrating causality between the use of the word empty and the action of smoking , but instead being an example of circular reasoning .
It is these two formulations of Roger Brown 's which have become widely known and attributed to Whorf and Sapir while in fact the second formulation , verging on linguistic determinism , was never advanced by either of them .
In a later experiment , speakers of two languages that categorize colors differently ( English and Zuni ) were asked to perform tasks of color recognition .
Berlin and Kay 's research has since been criticized by relativists such as John A. Lucy , who has argued that Berlin and Kay 's conclusions were skewed by their insistence that color terms should encode only color information .
For example , Ekkehart Malotki 's monumental study of time expressions in Hopi presented many examples that challenged Whorf 's interpretation of Hopi language and culture as being `` timeless '' .
Where Brown 's weak version of Linguistic relativity proposes that language influences thought and the strong version that language determines thought , Fishman 's ` Whorfianism of the third kind ' proposes that language is a key to culture .
In the late 1980s and early 1990s , advances in cognitive psychology and cognitive linguistics renewed interest in the Sapir -- Linguistic relativity .
Slobin on the other hand , described another kind of cognitive process that he named `` thinking for speaking '' -- the kind of processes in which perceptional data and other kinds of prelinguistic cognition are translated into linguistic terms for the purpose of communicating them to others .
Current researchers such as Lera Boroditsky , John A. Lucy and Stephen C. Levinson believe that language influences thought , but in more limited ways than the broadest early claims .
The first example of this kind of research is Whorf 's observation of discrepancies between the grammar of time expressions in Hopi and English .
The main strand of domain centered research has been the research on color terminology , although this domain according to Lucy and admitted by color terminology researchers such as Paul Kay , is not optimal for studying linguistic relativity , because color perception , unlike other semantic domains , is known to be hard wired into the neural system and as such subject to more universal restrictions than other semantic domains .
He concluded that cognitive differences between the grammatical usage of Swedish prepositions and Finnish cases could have caused Swedish factories to pay more attention to the work process where Finnish factory organizers paid more attention to the individual worker .
Researchers concluded that this had to do with properties of the focal colors having higher codability than less focal colors , and not with linguistic relativity effects .
Like Berlin and Kay , Maclaury found no significant room for linguistic relativity in this domain , but rather concluded as did Berlin and Kay that the domain is governed mostly by physical-biological universals of human color perception .
Already as Sapir and Whorf were formulating the ideas of linguistic relativity , Polish-American engineer Alfred Korzybski was independently developing his theory of General Semantics which was aimed at using language 's influence on thinking to maximize human cognitive abilities .
Independently of Whorf and Sapir , Korzybsky described the basic principle of his theory in a way that is a `` strong '' version of Linguistic relativity .
An example of this would be that if a person is electrocuted by a wiring defect incorporated into a structure in , say , 1990 , a state law may allow his heirs to sue only before 1997 in the case of an open ( patent ) defect , or before 2000 in the case of a hidden defect .
The Supreme Court of the United States has described the `` standard rule '' as to when the time begins to be `` when the plaintiff has a complete and present cause of action '' , which Statute of limitations describes as being in place since the 1830s .
However , a different rule called the `` discovery rule '' applies in many other cases , including often in medical malpractice , or a similar effect may be applied through tolling .
As discussed in Wolk v. Olson , the discovery rule does not apply to mass-media publications such as newspapers and the Internet ; Statute of limitations begins to run at the date of publication .
In 2013 , the Supreme Court of the United States ruled unanimously in Gabelli v. Securities and Exchange Commission that the discovery rule does not apply to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 's investment advisor fraud lawsuits , as a purpose of the agency is to root out fraud .
`` Fraud upon the court '' has been defined by the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals to `` embrace that species of fraud which does , or attempts to , defile the court Statute of limitations , or is a fraud perpetrated by officers of the court so that the judicial machinery can not perform in the usual manner Statute of limitations impartial task of adjudging cases that are presented for adjudication '' .
Police evidence to the Victorian Inquiry into Church and Institutional Child Abuse , running since 2012 , exposed that Statute of limitations takes on average 24 years for a survivor of Child Sexual Abuse to go to the Police .
There is a growing understanding that organisations that have been infiltrated by child rapists and individuals who offend against Minors and the Disabled , have used Statute of limitations to avoid detection and prosecution , by moving from State to State and country to country .
Abolishing Statute of limitations for Civil Claims , for Minors and People under Guardianship , creates certainty that abuse of vulnerable people will be taken seriously by lawyers , Police , organisations and Governments .
It is necessary that penalties are enforceable on organisations that have turned a blind eye to crimes in the past , so that Statute of limitations can learn the hard lessons of history and safeguard the most vulnerable people in the community in the future .
In tort law , if a defendant commits a series of illegal acts against another person , or , in criminal law , if someone commits a continuing crime ( like molesting a child over a long period of Statute of limitations , which can be charged as a single offense ) , the period of limitation may begin to run from the last act in the series .
However , in the United States , there has been doctrinal confusion in the courts regarding whether or not the continuing violations doctrine applies to particular violations .
The terms submarine and sub are widespread and not assignable to any certain region , though many of the localized terms are clustered in the northeast United States , where most Italian Americans live .
The popularity of this Italian-American cuisine has grown from Submarine sandwich origins in Connecticut , Pennsylvania , Delaware , New York , New Jersey , and Massachusetts to most parts of the United States , Canada , and with the advent of chain restaurants , is now available in many parts of the world .
The use of the term submarine or sub ( after the resemblance of the roll to the shape of Submarine sandwich ) is widespread .
His sandwiches were made from a recipe he brought with him from Italy which consisted of a long crust roll , filled with cold cuts , topped with lettuce , tomatoes , peppers , onions , oil , vinegar , Italian herbs and spices , salt , and pepper .
By the 1940s , the spellings `` hoagie '' and , to a lesser extent , `` hoagy '' had come to dominate lesser user variations like `` hoogie '' and `` hoggie '' .
As time went on and popularity grew , small restaurants , called Hoagie shops and Sub shops , that specialized in Submarine sandwich began to open .
By the late 20th century , due to the rise of large franchisee chain restaurants and fast food , Submarine sandwich became available worldwide .
However , most scripts used to write Semitic languages are abjads -- a type of alphabetic script that omits some or all of the vowels , which is feasible for these languages because the consonants in Semitic languages are the primary carriers of meaning .
The Ge'ez alphabet , used for writing the Semitic languages of Ethiopia and Eritrea , is technically an abugida -- a modified abjad in which vowels are notated using diacritic marks added to the consonants .
Diakonoff sees Semitic originating between the Nile Delta and Canaan as the northernmost branch of Afroasiatic .
By the late 3rd millennium BC , East Semitic languages such as Akkadian and Eblaite dominated in Mesopotamia and north east Syria , while West Semitic languages such as Amorite , Canaanite and Ugaritic were probably spoken from Syria to the Arabian Peninsula , although Old South Arabian is considered by most to be South Semitic although data is sparse .
Incursions of nomadic Semitic Aramaeans , and later still Chaldeans and Suteans , from the Syrian desert begin around this time .
Phoenician colonies ( such as Carthage ) spread their Canaanite language throughout much of the Mediterranean , while Semitic languages close relative Hebrew became the vehicle of a religious literature , the Torah and Tanakh , that would have global ramifications .
However , as an ironic result of the Assyrian Empire 's vast conquests , Aramaic became the lingua franca of the Fertile Crescent and much of the Near East and parts of Asia Minor , gradually pushing Akkadian , Hebrew , Phoenician-Canaanite , and several other languages to extinction , although Hebrew and Akkadian remained in use as liturgical languages , Hebrew in particular developing a substantial literature .
With the expansion of Ethiopia under the Solomonic dynasty , Amharic , previously a minor local language , spread throughout much of the country , replacing languages both Semitic ( such as Gafat ) and non-Semitic ( such as Weyto ) , and replacing Ge'ez as the principal literary language ( though Ge'ez remains the liturgical language for Christians in the region ) ; this spread continues to this day , with Qimant set to disappear in another generation .
As the language of the Qur ` an and as a lingua franca , Semitic languages is studied widely in the non-Arabic-speaking Muslim world as well .
Syriac Semitic languages , a descendant of Mesopotamian Old Aramaic , is used liturgically by Lebanese ( the Maronites ) , Syrian and Assyrian Christians throughout Iraq , Syria , Lebanon , Iran and Turkey .
Historically linked to the peninsular homeland of the Old South Arabian languages , Ethiopia and Eritrea contain a substantial number of Semitic languages ; the most widely spoken are Amharic in Ethiopia , Tigre in Eritrea , and Tigrinya in both .
See table at Proto-Afroasiatic language Semitic languages share a number of grammatical features , although variation - both between separate languages , and within the languages themselves - has naturally occurred over time .
Modern Ethiopian Semitic languages follow a different word order of SOV , possessor -- possessed , and adjective -- noun ; however , the oldest attested Ethiopian Semitic language , Ge'ez , was VSO , possessed -- possessor , and noun -- adjective None Akkadian was also predominantly SOV .
The proto-Semitic three-case system ( nominative , accusative and genitive ) with differing vowel endings ( - u , - a - i ) , fully preserved in Qur ` anic Arabic ( see ʾIʿrab ) , Akkadian and Ugaritic , has disappeared everywhere in the many colloquial forms of Semitic languages , although Modern Standard Arabic maintains such case endings in literary and broadcasting contexts .
The archaic Samalian dialect of Old Aramaic reflects a case distinction in the plural between nominative - ū and oblique - ī ( compare the same distinction in Classical Arabic ) .
The South Semitic languages show a system somewhere between the East and Central Semitic languages .
There are six fairly uncontroversial nodes within Semitic languages : East Semitic , Northwest Semitic , Arabic , Old South Arabian ( also known as Sayhadic ) , Modern South Arabian , and Ethiopic .
The classification based on shared innovations given below , established by Robert Hetzron in 1976 and with later emendations by John Huehnergard and Rodgers as summarized in Hetzron 1997 , is the most widely accepted today .
In particular , several Semiticists still argue for the traditional ( partially nonlinguistic ) view of Arabic as part of South Semitic , and a few ( e.g.
Abdul Hamid I , Abdul Hamid I or Abdul Hamid I ( Ottoman Turkish : عبد الحميد اول ` Abdü ' l-Ḥamīd-i evvel ) , which translates to the Servant of God ( March 20 , 1725 -- April 7 , 1789 ) , was the 27th Sultan of the Ottoman Empire .
Abdülhamid was imprisoned for most of the first forty-two years of Abdul Hamid I life by Abdul Hamid I cousins Mahmud I and Osman III and Abdul Hamid I older brother Mustafa III , as was custom .
When Abdülhamid came to the throne the army asked for gratuities and the sultan claimed that : `` There are , no longer , gratuities in our treasury , all of our soldier sons should learn '' .
The other was Cubs player and RBI Champion Hack Wilson during Sammy Sosa record setting 1930 season in which Sammy Sosa recorded 191 RBIs .
On May 28 , , Sosa announced that Sammy Sosa instructed Sammy Sosa agent not to offer Sammy Sosa services to any Major League team for the 2008 season , and planned on filing for retirement , but never did .
Spenser (character) -- his first name is never officially revealed -- is a fictional character in a series of detective novels initially by the American mystery writer Robert B. Parker and later by Ace Atkins .
This requires some retconning -- Spenser (character) stopped making reference to his military service in the Korean War as an eighteen-year-old , as he did in the first novels -- although in 2006 's Hundred Dollar Baby Spenser mentions being on `` R and R '' in Japan before going back to the war , although exactly which war is not made clear .
Spenser (character) seems to agree with William Faulkner 's assessment of scotch -- `` that brown liquor which not women , not boys and children , but only hunters drank '' .
After his mother 's death ( which occurred prior to Spenser (character) birth -- he was an emergency C-section ) , Spenser (character) was raised by his father and two uncles ( his mother 's brothers ) , all of them carpenters , who do not appear in Spenser (character) .
At the end of the novel , Spenser (character) leaves his father and uncles behind in Wyoming to attend college in Boston .
In the 1970s and 1980 's Spenser (character) usually carried a Smith & Wesson Model 36 , .38 Special caliber , `` Chief 's Special '' revolver .
Spenser (character) and Hawk live in the same Boston literary universe as Parker 's other , newer series characters : private investigator Sunny Randall and small town police chief Jesse Stone , the former of whom was possibly mentioned in passing as a blonde jogging with an English bull terrier ( named Rosie in the Randall novels ) while the latter had a much larger role in Back Story .
The fictional Taft University , where Susan teaches , was also a primary setting for the Spenser (character) novel Playmates , and the non-Spenser novel Love and Glory .
Spenser (character) is a fictional character in a series of detective novels initially by the American mystery writer Robert B. Parker and later by Ace Atkins .
Sideshow might be partly a freak show exhibiting `` human oddities '' ( including `` born freaks '' such as midgets , giants or persons with other deformities , or `` made freaks '' like tattooed people , fat people or `` human skeletons '' - extremely thin men often `` married '' to the fat lady , like Isaac W. Sprague ) .
The `` Single-O '' is a single attraction , for example a single curiosity like the `` Bonnie and Clyde Death Car '' or Hitler 's staff car , a `` Giant Rat '' ( actually usually a nutria ) or other unusual animal , a `` What Is Sideshow ?
A `` Museum Show '' which might be deceptively billed as `` World 's Greatest Freaks Past and Present , '' is a sideshow in which the exhibits are usually not alive .
Sideshow might include tanks of piranhas or cages with unusual animals , stuffed freak animals or other exotic items like the weapons or cars allegedly used by famous murderers .
Sideshow is a freak show exhibiting `` human oddities '' ( including `` born freaks '' such as midgets , giants or persons with other deformities , or `` made freaks '' like tattooed people , fat people or `` human skeletons '' - extremely thin men often `` married '' to the fat lady , like Isaac W. Sprague ) .
Sagittarius (constellation) is generally depicted with wings , with two heads , one panther head and one human head , as well as a scorpion 's stinger raised above Sagittarius (constellation) more conventional horse 's tail .
In some legends , the Centaur Chiron was the son of Philyra and Saturn , who was said to have changed himself into a horse to escape his jealous wife , Rhea .
In tropical astrology , the Sun is considered to be in the sign Sagittarius (constellation) from 22 November to 21 December , and in sidereal astrology , from 16 December to 14 January .
ω ¹ Scorpii and ω ² Scorpii are an optical double , which can be resolved by the unaided eye .
However , the contest was apparently a lively one that caught the attention of the king of the gods Zeus , who later raised the scorpion to heaven and afterwards , at the request of Artemis , did the same for Orion to serve as a reminder for mortals to curb their excessive pride .
Steven Spielberg ( born December 18 , 1946 ) is an American film director , screenwriter , producer , and studio entrepreneur .
Steven Spielberg won the Academy Award for Best Director for Schindler 's List ( 1993 ) and Saving Private Ryan ( 1998 ) .
After this , and an episode of Marcus Welby , M.D. , Spielberg got Steven Spielberg first feature-length assignment : an episode of The Name of the Game called `` L.A. 2017 '' .
Rejecting offers to direct Jaws 2 , King Kong and Superman , Steven Spielberg and actor Richard Dreyfuss re-convened to work on Steven Spielberg .
Spielberg then revisited Steven Spielberg Close Encounters project and , with financial backing from Columbia Pictures , released Close Encounters : The Special Edition in 1980 .
For this , Spielberg fixed some of the flaws Steven Spielberg thought impeded the original 1977 version of the film and also , at the behest of Columbia , and as a condition of Spielberg revising the film , shot additional footage showing the audience the interior of the mothership seen at the end of the film ( a decision Spielberg would later regret as Steven Spielberg felt the interior of the mothership should have remained a mystery ) .
Between 1982 and 1985 , Spielberg produced three high-grossing films : Poltergeist ( for which Steven Spielberg also co-wrote the screenplay ) , a big-screen adaptation of ( for which Steven Spielberg directed the segment `` Kick The Can '' ) , and The Goonies ( Spielberg , executive producer , also wrote the story on which the screenplay was based ) .
In spite of this , Temple of Doom is rated PG by the MPAA , even though it is the darkest and , possibly , most violent Indy film .
Steven Spielberg earned generally positive reviews and was another box office success , becoming the highest grossing film worldwide that year ; its total box office receipts even topped those of Tim Burton 's much-anticipated film Batman , which had been the bigger hit domestically .
Steven Spielberg is also interested in making an adaptation of A Steady Rain , Pirate Latitudes , The 39 Clues , and Under the Dome , along with a remake of When Worlds Collide .
However , the purchase was made from the King estate , led by son Dexter , while the two other surviving children , the Reverend Bernice and Martin III , immediately threatened to sue , not having given their approvals to the project .
In an AFI interview in August 2000 Spielberg commented on Steven Spielberg interest in the possibility of extra terrestrial life and how it has influenced some of Steven Spielberg films .
In Empire of the Sun , Jim , a well-groomed and spoiled English youth , loses Steven Spielberg innocence as Steven Spielberg suffers through World War II China .
Similarly , in Catch Me If You Can , Frank naively and foolishly believes that Steven Spielberg can reclaim Steven Spielberg shattered family if Steven Spielberg accumulates enough money to support them .
For instance , Steven Spielberg has cast Richard Dreyfuss in several films : Jaws , Close Encounters of the Third Kind , and Always .
Other working relationships include Allen Daviau , a childhood friend and cinematographer who shot the early Spielberg film Amblin and most of Steven Spielberg films up to Empire of the Sun ; Janusz Kamiński who has shot every Spielberg film since Schindler 's List ( see List of film director and cinematographer collaborations ) ; and the film editor Michael Kahn who has edited every film directed by Spielberg from Close Encounters to Munich ( except E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial ) .
Steven Spielberg has been nominated for seven Academy Awards for the category of Best Director , winning two of them ( Schindler 's List and Saving Private Ryan ) , and seven of the films Steven Spielberg directed were up for the Best Picture Oscar ( Schindler 's List won ) .
The badge was launched at the 1989 National Scout Jamboree , which Spielberg attended , and where Steven Spielberg personally counseled many boys in their work on requirements .
That same year , 1989 , saw the release of Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade .
French New Wave filmmaker Jean-Luc Godard stated that Steven Spielberg holds Spielberg partly responsible for the lack of artistic merit in mainstream cinema and accused Spielberg of using Steven Spielberg film Schindler 's List to make a profit of tragedy while Schindler 's wife , Emilie Schindler , lived in poverty in Argentina .
In defense of Steven Spielberg , critic Roger Ebert said `` Has Godard or any other director living or dead done more than Steven Spielberg , with his Holocaust Project , to honor and preserve the memories of the survivors ?
Imre Kertész , Hungarian Jewish author , Nazi concentration camp survivor , and winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature , criticized Spielberg 's depiction of the Holocaust in Schindler 's List as kitsch , saying `` Steven Spielberg regard as kitsch any representation of the Holocaust that is incapable of understanding or unwilling to understand the organic connection between our own deformed mode of life and the very possibility of the Holocaust '' .
Shelton Jackson `` Spike '' Lee ( born March 20 , 1957 ) is an American film director , producer , writer , and actor .
Spike Lee production company , 40 Acres and a Mule Filmworks , has produced over 35 films since 1983 .
Spike Lee also had three younger siblings Joie , David , and Cinqué , who all worked in many different positions in Lee 's films .
As Lee became more well known and Spike Lee work and comments were followed more closely , Spike Lee became embroiled in some controversies .
Spike Lee said that Lew Wasserman , Sidney Sheinberg or Tom Pollock , the Jewish heads of MCA and Universal Studios , were unlikely to allow antisemitic content in a film they produced .
Spike Lee said Spike Lee could not make an antisemitic film because Jews run Hollywood , and `` that 's a fact '' .
Joie Lee ( Lee 's sister ) and John Turturro leads the list with nine feature films each , more than any other actors Spike Lee has worked with .
Spike Jonze is best known for Spike Jonze collaborations with writer Charlie Kaufman , which include the 1999 film Being John Malkovich ( which gave Spike Jonze a nomination for Academy Award for Best Director ) and the 2002 film Adaptation , and as the co-writer/director of the 2009 film Where the Wild Things Are .
Spike Jonze mother , Sandy Granzow , is a writer , communications consultant in developing countries , and artist .
Spike Jonze brother Sam ( aka Squeak E. Clean ) is a producer and DJ .
The first governor , Captain John Dutton , arrived in 1659 , making Saint Helena one of Britain 's oldest colonies outside North America and the Caribbean .
Between January and May 1673 the Dutch East India Company forcibly took Saint Helena , before English reinforcements restored English East India Company control .
Ecological problems , including deforestation , soil erosion , vermin and drought , led Governor Isaac Pyke to suggest in 1715 that the population be moved to Mauritius , but this was not acted upon and the Company continued to subsidise the community because of Saint Helena strategic location .
The Development and Economic Planning Department , which still operates , was formed in 1988 to contribute to raising the living standards of the people of Saint Helena .
Due to a high number of endemic species and genera ( 400 known endemic species ) and an exceptional range of habitats , Saint Helena is on the United Kingdom 's tentative list for future UNESCO World Heritage Sites .
This was in 1947 when the King , accompanied by Queen Elizabeth ( later the Queen Mother ) , Princess Elizabeth ( later Queen Elizabeth II ) and Princess Margaret were travelling to South Africa .
The majority of `` Saints '' emigrated to the UK , South Africa , and in the early years , Australia .
In the past emigration was characterised by young unaccompanied persons leaving to work on long-term contracts on Ascension and the Falkland Islands , but since `` Saints '' were re-awarded UK citizenship in 2002 , emigration to the UK by a wider range of wage-earners has accelerated due to the prospect of higher wages and better progression prospects .
Other Christian denominations on Saint Helena include : Roman Catholic ( since 1852 ) , Salvation Army ( since 1884 ) , Baptist ( since 1845 ) , and , in more recent times , Seventh-day Adventist ( since 1949 ) , New Apostolic , and Jehovah 's Witnesses ( one out of every 35 residents is one of Jehovah 's Witnesses , the highest ratio in the world ) .
Tristan da Cunha , settled since 1815 , has a population of fewer than 300 , mainly of British , Irish , Italian and St Helenian descent .
Saint Helena is a working island with a transient population of approximately 1,000 , made up mainly of members of the American and British militaries , supporting civilian contractors who serve on the joint Anglo-American airbase , and members of their families ( a few of whom were born on the island ) .
Household survey results suggest the percentage of households spending less than # 20 per week on a per capita basis fell from 27 % to 8 % between 2000 and 2004 , implying a decline in income poverty .
The Governor 's Cup is a yacht race ( and the first prize ) between Cape Town and Saint Helena island , held every two years in December/January ; the most recent event was in December 2010 .
With the exception of silk , each of these fibres is short , being only centimetres in length , and each has a rough surface that enables Spinning (textiles) to bond with similar staples .
This is a technique where the staple fiber is blown by air into a rotor and attaches to the tail of formed yarn that is continually being drawn out of the chamber .
In open-end and air-jet spinning , the roving operation is eliminated .
Hand-spinning was a cottage industry in medieval Europe , where the wool spinners ( often women and children ) would provide enough yarn to service the needs of the men who operated the loom .
The subsequent invention of the spinning jenny water frame redressed the balance but required water power to operate the machinery , and Spinning (textiles) relocated to West Yorkshire where this was available .
By the aftermath of World War I the colonies where the cotton was grown started to purchase and manufacture significant quantities of cotton spinning machinery .
Abdur Rahman Khan was born sometime between 1840 and 1844 , in Kabul .
Although Abdur Rahman Khan father , Afzal Khan , who had none of these qualities , came to terms with the Amir Sher Ali , the son 's behavior in the northern province soon excited the Amir 's suspicion , and Abdur Rahman , when Abdur Rahman Khan was summoned to Kabul , fled across the Oxus into Bukhara .
In March 1880 , a report reached India that Abdur Rahman was in northern Afghanistan ; and the governor-general , Lord Lytton , opened communications with Abdur Rahman Khan to the effect that the British government were prepared to withdraw their troops , and to recognize Abdur Rahman as Amir of Afghanistan , with the exception of Kandahar and some districts adjacent to it .
After some negotiations , an interview took place between Abdur Rahman Khan and Lepel Griffin , the diplomatic representative at Kabul of the Indian government .
In 1885 , at the moment when the Amir was in conference with the British viceroy , Lord Dufferin , in India , the news came of a skirmish between Russian and Afghan troops at Panjdeh , over a disputed point in the demarcation of the northwestern frontier of Afghanistan .
In the Shikhali district an estimated 7,000 head of cattle were taken away from Hazaras and 350 men and women of the Jaghori district had been sold at Kabul markets each at the price of 20 -- 21 Afs .
Abdur Rahman could only succeed in subjugating Hazaras and conquering their land when Abdur Rahman Khan effectively utilized internal differences within the Hazara community , co-opting sold-out Hazara chiefs into Abdur Rahman Khan bureaucratic sales of the enslaved Hazara men , women and children in 1897 , the Hazaras remained de facto slaves until King Amanullah Khan declared Afghanistan 's independence in 1919 .
In 1893 Mortimer Durand negotiated with Abdur Rahman Khan , the Durand Line Treaty for the demarcation of the frontier between Afghanistan , the FATA , North-West Frontier Province and Baluchistan Provinces of Pakistan the successor state of British India .
This line , the Durand Line , is named after Mortimer Durand and which still remains as an unrecognized boundary by the Government of Afghanistan .
Some remember Abdur Rahman Khan as a ruler that initiated many programs for modernization and effectively prevented the country from being occupied by Russia and Britain during the Great Game .
On the other hand , some sectors of Afghanistan remember Abdur Rahman Khan as a domestically violent but Geo-politically weak ruler in that Abdur Rahman Khan was brought to power by the British and declared war on Afghan minorities instead of fighting the British that were deciding Afghanistan 's foreign policy for Abdur Rahman Khan .
Republics of the Soviet Union or the Union Republics ( , soyuznye respubliki ) of the Soviet Union were ethnically-based administrative units that were subordinated directly to the Government of the Soviet Union .
The Soviet Union was a highly centralized state ; the decentralization reforms during the era of Perestroika and Glasnost conducted by Mikhail Gorbachev led to the Dissolution of the USSR .
All of the former Republics are now independent countries , with eleven of them ( all except the Baltic states and Georgia ) being very loosely organized under the heading of the Commonwealth of Independent States .
In accordance with provisions present in the Constitution ( versions adopted in 1924 , 1936 and 1977 ) , each republic retained the right to secede from the USSR .
Under the constitution adopted in 1936 and modified along the way until October 1977 , the political foundation of the Soviet Union was formed by the Soviets ( Councils ) of People 's Deputies .
Each republic had Republics of the Soviet Union own unique set of state symbols : a flag , a coat of arms , and , with the exception of the Russian SFSR until 1990 , an anthem .
Diffuse cutaneous scleroderma covers more of the skin , and is at risk of progressing to the visceral organs , including the kidneys , heart , lungs and gastrointestinal tract are affected .
Diffuse Scleroderma - affects the skin as well as the heart , lungs , GI tract , and kidneys .
Limited Scleroderma - mostly affects the skin of the face , neck and distal elbows and knees and late in Systemic scleroderma causes isolated pulmonary hypertension .
Most patients ( over 80 % ) have vascular symptoms and Raynaud 's phenomenon , which leads to attacks of discoloration of the hands and feet in response to cold .
The most common source of decreased motility involvement is the esophagus and the lower esophageal sphincter , leading to dysphagia and chest pain .
If this is left untreated , acid from the stomach can back up into the esophagus causing esophagitis , and GERD .
Diagnostic hints that another disorder is responsible include the absence of Raynaud 's phenomenon , a lack of abnormalities in the skin on the hands , a lack of internal organ involvement , and a normal antinuclear antibodies test result .
An intracellular pathway ( consisting of SMAD2/SMAD3 , SMAD4 and the inhibitor SMAD7 ) is responsible for the secondary messenger system that induces transcription of the proteins and enzymes responsible for collagen deposition .
While still experimental ( given Systemic scleroderma high rate of complications ) , hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is being studied in patients with severe systemic sclerosis ; improvement in life expectancy and severity of skin changes has been noted .
In the United States , the prevalence of systemic scleroderma is about 50,000 , with different studies giving different estimates , usually ranging between 40,000 and 165,000 .
Comedian and television presenter Bob Saget , a board member of the SRF , directed the 1996 ABC TV movie For Hope , starring Dana Delany , which depicts a young woman fatally affected by scleroderma ; the film was based on the experiences of Saget 's sister Gay .
Between 1835 and 1865 more than 80 such narratives were published .
Recurrent features include : slave auctions , the break-up of families , and frequently two accounts of escapes , one of which is successful .
As this was the period of the forced migration of an estimated one million slaves from the Upper South to the Deep South through Slave narrative trade , the experiences of auctions and break-up of families were common to many .
During the Great Depression of the 1930s , the New Deal Works Projects Administration ( WPA ) employed writers and researchers from the Federal Writers ' Project to interview and document the stories of African Americans who were former slaves .
Slaves in North African suffered from many of the same conditions as their African counterparts in the United States , including hard labor , poor diet , and demeaning treatment .
A contemporary slave narrative is a memoir published now , written by a former slave , or ghost-written on Slave narrative behalf .
Stephen King ( born September 21 , 1947 ) is an American author of contemporary horror , suspense , science fiction and fantasy .
King has received Bram Stoker Awards , World Fantasy Awards , British Fantasy Society Awards , Stephen King novella The Way Station was a Nebula Award novelette nominee , and Stephen King short story `` The Man in the Black Suit '' received the O. Henry Award .
The first of Stephen King stories to be independently published was `` Stephen King Was a Teenage Grave Robber '' , serialized over three published and one unpublished issue of a fanzine , Comics Review , in 1965 .
After Stephen King mother 's death , King and Stephen King family moved to Boulder , Colorado , where King wrote The Shining ( published 1977 ) .
In 1977 , the family , with the addition of Owen Phillip ( Stephen King third and last child ) , traveled briefly to England , returning to Maine that fall where King began teaching creative writing at the University of Maine .
The book , whose profits were donated to assist with famine relief in Africa , was written by a number of different authors in the comic book field , such as Chris Claremont , Stan Lee , and Alan Moore , as well as authors not primarily associated with that industry , such as Harlan Ellison .
The success of The Gunslinger Born led to an ongoing miniseries published by Marvel , with Furth and David continuing to collaborate , featuring both adapted material from the Dark Tower books and new material approved by Stephen King ; it also led to a second series of King adaptations in the same format , serializing the events of The Stand .
The idea behind this was to test whether Stephen King could replicate Stephen King success again and to allay Stephen King fears that Stephen King popularity was an accident .
King dedicated Stephen King 1989 book The Dark Half , about a pseudonym turning on a writer , to `` the deceased Richard Bachman '' , and in 1996 , when the Stephen King novel Desperation was released , the companion novel The Regulators carried the `` Bachman '' byline .
Stephen King is also often asked why Stephen King writes such terrifying stories and Stephen King answers with another question : `` Why do you assume Stephen King have a choice ?
Stephen King 's gon na produce another book , and Stephen King 'll have another book to read .
Analyzing both the narrative structure of King 's fiction and King 's non-fiction ruminations on the art and craft of writing , Carroll writes that for Stephen King , `` the horror story is always a contest between the normal and the abnormal such that the normal is reinstated and , therefore , affirmed '' .
Joshi argues that King 's best-known works ( Stephen King supernatural novels ) , are Stephen King worst , describing them as mostly bloated , illogical , maudlin and prone to deus ex machina endings .
Joshi cites two early non-supernatural novels -- Rage ( 1977 ) and The Running Man ( 1982 ) -- as King 's best , suggesting both are riveting and well-constructed suspense thrillers , with believable characters .
Stephen King has also appeared in The Golden Years , in Chappelle 's Show and , along with fellow author Amy Tan , on The Simpsons as Stephen King .
The Germans in particular began to show great commercial interest in the Samoan Islands , especially on the island of ` Upolu where German firms monopolised copra and cocoa bean processing ; the United States laid Samoa own claim and formed alliances with local native chieftains , most conspicuously on the islands of Tutuila and Manu'a ( which were later formally annexed to the USA as American Samoa ) .
While all of the islands have volcanic origins , only Savai'i , the western most island in Samoa , is volcanically active with the most recent eruptions in Mt Matavanu ( 1905 -- 1911 ) , Mata o le Afi ( 1902 ) and Mauga Afi ( 1725 ) .
In modern times , development aid , private family remittances from overseas , and agricultural exports have become key factors in Samoa economy .
Samoa hosts one of seven Bahá ' í Houses of Worship in the world ; completed in 1984 and dedicated by the Head of State , Samoa is located in Tiapapata , 8 km ( 5 mi ) from Apia .
The fa'a Samoa , or traditional Samoan way , remains a strong force in Samoan life and politics .
Examples of this are the traditional Samoan fale ( houses ) which are open with no walls , using blinds made of coconut palm fronds during the night or bad weather .
The late John Kneubuhl , born in American Samoa , was an accomplished playwright and screenwriter and writer .
The feature film Siones Wedding , co-written by Oscar Kightley , was financially successful following premieres in Auckland and Apia .
They also took home the cup at Wellington and the Hong Kong Rugby Sevens in 2007 -- for which the Prime Minister of Samoa , also Chairman of the national rugby union , Tuila’epa Sa’ilele Malielegaoi , declared a national holiday .
In statistics , the autocorrelation of a random process describes the correlation between values of the process at different times , as a function of the two times or of the time lag .
Then the definition of the autocorrelation between times s and t is where `` E '' is the expected value operator .
However , the normalization is important both because the interpretation of Autocorrelation as a correlation provides a scale-free measure of the strength of statistical dependence , and because the normalization has an effect on the statistical properties of the estimated autocorrelations .
Autocorrelation is an even function and Autocorrelation is a Hermitian function For a discrete process with known mean and variance for which we observe observations , an estimate of Autocorrelation may be obtained as for any positive integer .
A more flexible test , covering autocorrelation of higher orders and applicable whether or not the regressors include lags of the dependent variable , is the Breusch -- Godfrey test .
A small uninhabited island Namua sits between Manono and Apolima .
Existing alongside the country 's Western styled political system is the fa'amatai chiefly system of socio-political governance and organisation , central to understanding Samoa 's political system .
These three sources of revenue -- tourism , private transfers , and official transfers -- allow Samoa to cover Economy of Samoa persistently large trade deficit .
Asau , with the Potlatch sawmillers and Samoa Forest Products , was one of the busiest parts of Savai'i in the 1960s and 1970s ; however , the departure of Potlatch and the scaling down of the sawmill has left Asau a ghost town in recent years .
Transport in Samoa includes one international airport situated on the north west coast of Upolu island , paved highways reaching most parts of the two main , one main port in the capital Apia and two ports servicing mainly inter island ferries for vehicles and passengers between the two main islands , Upolu and Savai'i .
The decision was controversial with an estimated 18,000 people attending demonstrations against Transport in Samoa in Apia in April 2008 and road signs reminding people of the change were vandalised .
The motor industry was also opposed to the decision as 14,000 of Samoa 's 18,000 vehicles were designed for right-hand driving and the government refused to meet the cost of conversion .
San Marino , officially the Republic of San Marino and also known as the Most Serene Republic of San Marino , is an enclaved microstate surrounded by Italy , situated on the Italian Peninsula on the north-eastern side of the Apennine Mountains .
San Marino claims to be the oldest surviving sovereign state and constitutional republic in the world , as the continuation of the monastic community founded on 3 September 301 , by stonecutter Marinus of Arba .
By the mid-5th century , a community was formed ; because of San Marino relatively inaccessible location and San Marino poverty , San Marino has succeeded , with a few brief interruptions , in maintaining San Marino independence .
Thanks to his intervention , Napoleon , in a letter delivered to Gaspard Monge , scientist and commissary of the French Government for Science and Art , promised to guarantee and protect the independence of the Republic , offering to extend San Marino territory according to San Marino needs .
San Marino had the world 's first democratically elected communist government , which held office between 1945 and 1957 .
San Marino is an enclave in Italy , on the border between the regioni of Emilia Romagna and Marche and about from the Adriatic coast at Rimini .
In the 13th century , power was given to the Great and General Council .
In a similar way to an Italian , each includes a main settlement , called , which is the seat of the , and some even smaller localities known as .
The Guard of the Council Great and General commonly known as The Guard of the Council or locally as the ` Guard of Nobles ' , formed in 1740 , is a volunteer unit with ceremonial duties .
Historically , the various parishes in San Marino were divided between two Italian dioceses , mostly in the Diocese of Montefeltro , and partly in the Diocese of Rimini .
In 1977 , the border between Montefeltro and Rimini was readjusted so that all of San Marino fell within the diocese of Montefeltro .
There are many documents throughout the 15th to 17th centuries describing Jewish dealings and verifying the presence of a Jewish community in San Marino .
There are no public airports in San Marino , but there is a small private airstrip located in Torraccia and an international heliport located in Borgo Maggiore .
The Università degli Studi della Repubblica di San Marino ( University of the Republic of San Marino ) is the main university , which includes the Scuola Superiore di Studi Storici di San Marino ( Advanced School of Historical Studies ) , a distinguished research and advanced international study center governed by an international Scientific Committee coordinated by professor Luciano Canfora .
The latter is known for adopting Esperanto as the language for teaching and for scientific publications ; further , San Marino makes wide use of e-learning .
San Marino best known is probably the Torta Tre Monti ( `` Cake of the Three Mountains '' or `` Cake of the Three Towers '' ) , a wafer layered cake covered in chocolate depicting The Three Towers of San Marino .
The country has a long and rich musical tradition , closely linked to that of Italy , but which is also highly independent in San Marino .
She finished 16th in a field of 19 in the semi-final , coming behind Croatia 's Daria Kinzer with the song `` Celebrate '' and coming in front of Norway 's Stella Mwangi , who sang `` Haba Haba '' .
When French emperor Napoleon I completed his conquest of Northern Italy and began to push his armies towards the edges of the northern territories of the Papal State , San Marino found History of San Marino forced to choose between maintaining the alliance with the Papal State or creating a new one with France .
Thanks to his intervention , Napoleon , with a letter delivered to Gasparre Monge , scientist and commissary of the French Government for Science and Art , promised to guarantee and protect the independence of the Republic offering to extend History of San Marino territory according to History of San Marino needs .
Towards the end of the 19th Century , San Marino experienced economic depression : a large increase in the birth rate coupled with a widening of the gap between agricultural and industrial development led people to seek their fortunes in more industrialised countries .
Even today there are still large concentrations of San Marino citizens residing in foreign countries , above all , in the United States , in France and in Argentina .
An important turning-point in the political and social life of the country took place on March 25 , 1906 , when the Arengo met ; out of 1,054 heads of family , 805 were present .
Two groups of 10 volunteers each did join Italian forces in the fighting on the Italian front , the first as combatants and the second as a medical corps operating a Red Cross field hospital .
San Marino in the 1920s , still a largely agrarian society , experienced political turmoil influenced by the events in Fascist Italy , culminating in June 1921 in the murder in Serravalle of Italian doctor and Fascist sympathiser Carlo Bosi by local leftists , which led to condemnation by the surrounding Italian population and threats of retaliation by Italian squadristi .
The 1930s was an era of public works and reinvention of the Republic 's economy , with the construction of the San Marino-Rimini railway that connected History of San Marino to the Italian railway network and modernization of the country 's infrastructures that paved the way to History of San Marino present status as a major tourist destination .
San Marino 's hope to escape further involvement was shattered on 27 July 1944 when Major Gunther , commander of the German forces in Forlì , delivered a letter from German headquarters in Ferrara to San Marino 's government declaring that the country 's sovereignty could not be respected if , in view of military requirements , the necessity of transit of troops and vehicles arose .
Demographics of San Marino , include population density , ethnicity , education level , health of the populace , economic status , religious affiliations and other aspects of the population .
Politics of San Marino takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic , whereby the Captains Regent are the heads of state , and of a multi-party system .
The State Congress , composed of 10 Secretaries , wields executive power.The secretary of state for Foreign and Political Affairs ( Pasquale Valentini , since 5 December 2012 ) has assumed many of the prerogatives of a prime minister or head of government .
The Grand and General Council elects the Council of Twelve , whose members remain in office until the next general election .
The per capita level of output and standard of living are comparable to those of Italy , which supplies much of Economy of San Marino food .
In 1894 , San Marino issued the first commemorative stamps and since then that has been part of a large livelihood in the republic .
The component parts of Military of San Marino ( other than the purely historical Crossbow Corps ) are distinguished ( as in many nations ) by distinctive cap badges , one each for the Fortress Guard ( uniformed ) , Fortress Guard ( artillery ) , Guard of the Council , Uniformed Militia , Military Ensemble ( band ) , and Gendarmerie .
By the mid twentieth century the Crossbow Corps had become largely defunct , save for parading on state holidays ; but in 1956 the practice of training Military of San Marino members in crossbow shooting was revived , and a ` Crossbow Federation ' was formed to encourage competition in this art , so that the unit ( although still entirely ceremonial in nature ) now again has a very active existence .
Military of San Marino role was last redefined by statute in 1987 , and Military of San Marino probably came into being as a military branch in 1754 ; however , the unit also uses the name `` Fortress Guards '' which may be traced back to much earlier units of Sammarinese military .
The ceremonial uniform ( 1 ) for festivals , usually worn only by the ceremonial Artillery Company , includes red trousers with a green stripe ( two thinner gold stripes for officers ) , a double breasted green jacket ( with red and white lanyard , red cuffs and collars , gold buttons , and red and white dress epaulettes ( for officers the epaulettes are gold , and there is a gold edge to the red cuffs ) ) , a black leather belt , and a black helmet decorated with red and white feathers .
For normal guard duties ( 2 ) the uniform of the main ( full-time ) Fortress Guard Corps is similar to that described above , but with plain green epaulettes , and a simple black kepi with a single red feather plume in place of the helmet .
Although both units are part of the same Guard Corps , and wear the same uniform , the Artillery Unit has a totally different military cap badge , as a reminder of Military of San Marino historical origins .
The distinctive dress uniform ( 1 ) includes dark blue trousers and double-breasted tailed jacket , with gold coloured ornaments including : double stripe on trouser legs , dress epaulettes , cuffs , collars , and jacket tail edges - distinctively , the double gold trouser stripe is in ` cloth of gold ' for officers , but a bright yellow-gold cloth for other ranks .
Established in 1842 , the ` Corps of Gendarmerie of San Marino ' is a militarized police service , under the control of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Politics .
The Gendarmerie has two ` Divisions ' entitled ` Criminal Police Division ' and ` Flying Squad Division ' , each of which is further divided into operational ` Brigades ' .
In the early 19th century , two new cash crops , coffee and cocoa , were introduced .
Sporadic labor unrest and dissatisfaction continued well into the 20th century , culminating in an outbreak of riots in 1953 in which several hundred African laborers were killed in a clash with their Portuguese rulers .
In 1990 , São Tomé became one of the first African countries to embrace democratic reform and changes to the constitution -- the legalization of opposition political parties -- led to elections in 1991 that were nonviolent , free , and transparent .
The Party of Democratic Convergence ( PCD ) toppled the MLSTP to take a majority of seats in the National Assembly , with the MLSTP becoming an important and vocal minority party .
The AA compiler generated range-checking for array accesses , and allowed an array to have dimensions that were determined at run-time ( i.e. you could declare an array as integer array Thing ( i : j ) , where i and j were calculated values ) .
Consequently Atlas Autocode allowed symbols like '' 1/2 '' for '' .5 '' and the superscript 2 for `` to the power of 2 '' .
For example the character set had no '' ↑ '' symbol , so exponentiation was an overstrike of '' '' and '' Other Flexowriter characters that were found a use in Atlas Autocode were : α in floating-point numbers , e.g. , 3.56 α-7 for modern 3.56e-7 ; β to mean `` the second half of an Atlas memory word '' ; π for the mathematical constant pi .
When AA was ported to the English Electric KDF9 computer , the character set was changed to ISO and that compiler has been recovered from an old paper tape by the Edinburgh Computer History Project and is available online , as is a high-quality scan of the original Edinburgh version of the Atlas Autocode manual .
Atlas Autocode 's second-greatest claim to fame ( after being the progenitor of Imp and EMAS ) was that Atlas Autocode had many of the features of the original `` Compiler Compiler '' .
Geography of São Tomé and Príncipe main islands are São Tomé Island and Príncipe Island , for which the country is named .
Both are part of an extinct volcanic mountain range , which also includes the island of Bioko in Equatorial Guinea to the north and Mount Cameroon to the west .
Almost all belong to the Roman Catholic , Evangelical Protestant , or Seventh-day Adventist churches , which in turn retain close ties with churches in Portugal .
The second was from the mid-20th century when the discovery of vast oil deposits propelled History of Saudi Arabia into a key economic and geo-political role .
At other times , the region existed in relative obscurity and isolation , although from the 7th century the cities of Mecca and Medina had the highest spiritual significance for the Islamic world , Mecca being the destination for the Hajj annual pilgrimage .
However , between 1902 and 1927 , the Al Saud leader , Abdul Aziz , carried out a series of wars of conquest which resulted in his creation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 1932 .
Abdullah succeeded Fahd in 2005 and has instituted a number of mild reforms to modernize many of the country 's institutions and , to some extent , has increased political participation .
After putting down a rebellion by the Arab tribes ( known as the Ridda wars , or `` Wars of Apostasy '' ) , Abu Bakr attacked the Byzantine Empire .
The Qu ` ran requires every able-bodied Muslim who can afford History of Saudi Arabia , as one of the five pillars of Islam , to make a pilgrimage , or Hajj , to Mecca during the Islamic month of Dhu al-Hijjah at least once in his or her lifetime .
The Masjid al-Haram ( the Grand Mosque ) in Mecca is the location of the Kaaba , Islam 's holiest site , and the Masjid al-Nabawi ( the Prophet 's Mosque ) in Medina is the location of Muhammad tomb ; as a result , from the 7th century , Mecca and Medina became the pilgrimage destinations for large numbers of Muslims from across the Islamic world .
However , from the 10th century ( and , in fact , until the 20th century ) the Hashemite Sharifs of Mecca maintained a state in the most developed part of the region , the Hejaz .
Beginning with Selim I 's acquisition of Medina and Mecca in 1517 , the Ottomans , in the 16th century , added to their Empire the Hejaz and Asir regions along the Red Sea and the Al Hasa region on the Persian Gulf coast , these being the most populous parts of what was to become Saudi Arabia .
Throughout the rest of the 19th century , the Al Saud and the Al Rashid fought for control of the interior of what was to become Saudi Arabia .
In 1916 , with the encouragement and support of Britain and France ( which were fighting the Ottomans in the First World War ) , the Sharif of Mecca , Hussein bin Ali , led a pan-Arab revolt against the Ottoman Empire with the aim of securing Arab independence and creating a single unified Arab state spanning the Arab territories from Aleppo in Syria to Aden in Yemen .
In 1920 , the Ikhwan 's attention turned to the south-west , when they seized Asir , the region between the Hejaz and Yemen .
On 10 January 1926 Abdul-Aziz declared himself King of the Hejaz and , then , on 27 January 1927 he took the title King of Nejd ( his previous title was Sultan ) .
By the Treaty of Jeddah , signed on 20 May 1927 , the United Kingdom recognized the independence of Abdul-Aziz 's realm ( then known as the Kingdom of Hejaz and Nejd ) .
Abdul Aziz 's military and political successes were not mirrored economically until vast reserves of oil were discovered in 1938 in the Al-Hasa region along the Persian Gulf coast .
Urbanization , mass public education , the presence of numerous foreign workers , and access to new media all affected Saudi values .
Abdullah continued the policy of mild reform and greater openness , but in addition , adopted a foreign policy distancing the kingdom from the US .
Another attack and hostage-taking at an oil company compound in Khobar saw 22 people killed .
Geography of Saudi Arabia extensive coastlines on the Persian Gulf and Red Sea provide great leverage on shipping are undefined , so the exact size of the country remains unknown .
The Saudi government estimate is at 2,217,949 square kilometres , while other reputable estimates vary between 2,149,690 and 2,240,000 sq.
In 1965 Saudi Arabia and Jordan agreed to boundary demarcations involving an exchange of small areas of territory that gave Jordan some essential additional land near Aqaba , Geography of Saudi Arabia only port .
In 1922 Abd al Aziz ibn Abd ar Rahman Al Saud ( r. 1902 -- 53 ) and British officials representing Iraqi interests signed the Treaty of Mohammara , which established the boundary between Iraq and the future Saudi Arabia .
In 1938 oil was discovered in Kuwait 's southern Burqan fields , and both countries contracted with foreign oil companies to perform exploration work in the Divided Zone .
The border through ` Al Buraymi Oasis , located near the conjunction of the frontiers of Oman , Abu Dhabi ( one of the emirates of the UAE ) and Saudi Arabia , has triggered extensive dispute among the three states since the Treaty of Jeddah in 1927 .
Saudi Arabian Oil Company ( Saudi Aramco ) technicians have determined that very deep aquifers lie in many areas of northern and eastern Arabia and that the Wasia , the largest aquifer in Saudi Arabia , contains more water than the Persian Gulf .
The Saudi government , Saudi Aramco , and the United Nations ( UN ) Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) have made separate and joint efforts to exploit underground water resources .
The central plateau , Najd , extends east to the Jabal Tuwayq and slightly beyond .
Scattered oases , drawing water from springs and wells in the vicinity of the wadis , permit some settled agriculture .
Although rainfall is infrequent in this area , a number of fertile wadis , of which the most important are the Wadi Bishah and the Wadi Tathlith , make oasis agriculture possible on a relatively large scale .
A number of extensive lava fields ( harrat ) scar the surfaces of the plateaus east of the mountain ranges in the Hijaz and give evidence of fairly recent volcanic activity .
The heart of Najd is the area of the Jabal Tuwayq , an arc-shaped ridge with a steep west face that rises between 100 and 250 meters above the plateau .
For thousands of years , some of the heavily traveled caravan routes between the Mediterranean and the central and southern peninsula have passed through the Wadi as Sirhan .
This area , about sixty kilometers wide , is generally featureless and covered with gravel or sand .
At Geography of Saudi Arabia southern end , Geography of Saudi Arabia merges with the Rub al Khali , one of the truly forbidding sand deserts in the world and , until the 1950s , one of the least explored .
Beneath the harsh deserts of Saudi Arabia lie dark chambers and complex mazes filled with crystalline structures , stalactites and stalagmites .
Because the plants and animals of the sea floor are the basis of the food chain , damage to the shoreline has consequences for the whole shallow-water ecosystem , including the multi-million-dollar Saudi fisheries industry .
The UN Environmental Programme warned that eating livestock that grazed within an area of 7,000 square kilometers of the fires , or 1,100 kilometers from the center of the fires , an area that included northern Saudi Arabia , posed a danger to human health .
Until the 1960s , most of the population was nomadic or seminomadic ; due to rapid economic and urban growth , more than 95 % of the population now is settled .
Saudi Arabia hosts one of the pillars of Islam , which obliges all Muslims to make the Hajj , or pilgrimage to Mecca , at least once during their lifetime if they are able to do so .
In the 1970s and 1980s , there was also a significant community of South Korean migrant labourers , numbering in the hundreds of thousands , but most have since returned home ; the South Korean government 's statistics showed only 1,200 of their nationals living in the kingdom .
Government is dominated by the vast royal family , the Al Saud , which has often been divided by internal disputes and into factions .
The Quran and the Sunnah ( the traditions of Muhammad ) are declared to be the country 's constitution .
Although , in theory , the country is an absolute monarchy , in practice major policy decisions are made outside these formal governmental structures and not solely by the king .
King Faisal ( 1964 -- 1975 ) was a `` modernist '' who favored economic , technological and governmental progress but was also politically and religiously conservative .
Long term political and government appointments , such as those of King Abdullah , who was the Commander of the National Guard from 1963 until 2010 , when he then appointed his son to replace him ) , Crown Prince Sultan , was Minister of Defence and Aviation from 1962 to 2011 , Prince Nayef was the Minister of Interior from 1975 until his death in 2012 , Prince Saud has been Minister of Foreign Affairs since 1975 and Prince Salman , was the Governor of the Riyadh Region from 1962 to 2011 , resulting in the creation of `` power fiefdoms '' for senior princes .
For example , he ( as well as King Abdullah ) has spoken in favor of women having the right to vote , to follow the career path Politics of Saudi Arabia wish and to be able to drive a car .
The significance of the ulema ( the body of Islamic religious leaders and jurists ) is derived from the central role of religion in Saudi society .
The pact , which persists to this day , is based on the Al Saud maintaining the Al ash-Sheikh 's authority in religious matters and upholding and propagating Wahhabi doctrine .
The membership of the Consultative Council was expanded from 60 to 90 members in July 1997 , to 120 in May 2001 , and to 150 members in 2005 .
In 2009 , promised new elections and hopes for female suffrage in them were postponed for at least two years .
As part of Economy of Saudi Arabia effort to attract foreign investment and diversify the economy , Saudi Arabia acceded to the WTO in 2005 after many years of negotiations .
This is a chart of trend of gross domestic product of Saudi Arabia at market prices estimated by the International Monetary Fund ( and other sources ) with figures in millions of Saudi Arabian Riyals .
These include the $ 27 billion Ras Tanura integrated refinery and petrochemical project , the $ 9 billion Saudi Kayan petrochemical complex at Jubail Industrial City , and the $ 10 billion Petro Rabigh refinery upgrade project .
In 2008 , Fortune 500 ranking records SABIC revenues at $ 40.2 billion , profits at $ 5.8 billion and assets standing at $ 72.4 billion .
SABIC established in June 2006 `` SABIC Sukuk Company '' to issue Islamic bonds ( Sukuk ) that are estimated to range between SAR1 billion ( USD266 .67 million ) and SAR3 billion ( USD800 million ) .
In addition , since Economy of Saudi Arabia formation , Ma'aden ( through the Ministry of Petroleum & Mineral Resources ) has collaborated with the Government and local legislators to develop a regulatory framework for the governance of the mining industry .
As of 2007 , non-oil manufacturing contributed 10 % to Saudi Arabian GDP and less than 6 % of total employment .
The share for diversifying and expanding productive sectors of the economy ( primarily industry ) did not rise as planned , but the two industrial cities of Jubail and Yanbu -- built around the use of the country 's oil and gas to produce steel , petrochemicals , fertilizer , and refined oil products -- were largely completed .
The fifth plan ( 1990 -- 95 ) emphasized consolidation of the country 's defenses ; improved and more efficient government social services ; regional development ; and , most importantly , creating greater private-sector employment opportunities for Saudis by reducing the number of foreign workers .
The seventh plan ( 2000 -- 2004 ) focuses more on economic diversification and a greater role of the private sector in Economy of Saudi Arabia .
Telephones - main lines in use : 4,633,158 ( 2011 - source : ITU ) 53,705,808 ( 2011 - source : ITU ) In 2004 , the Saudi Telecom Company ( STC ) monopolization was broken by authorizing Etihad Etisalat/Mobily to compete in mobile communication , in June 2009 GO Telecom ( Etihad Atheeb Telecom ) or '' جو '' also entered the market .
SRO passenger trains operate between Riyadh and Dammam .
Armed Forces of Saudi Arabia modern existence , however , is attributable to Armed Forces of Saudi Arabia being effectively Abdullah 's private army since the 1960s and , unlike the rest of the armed forces , is independent of the Ministry of Defense and Aviation .
In the 1990-1991 Gulf War , having U.S.-trained Saudi forces , along with military installations built to U.S. specifications , allowed the American armed forces to deploy in a comfortable and familiar battle environment .
US troops in Saudi Arabia served to provoke skirmishes between Iraq and the US between both Gulf Wars .
Examples of the acculturizing effect of Saudi aid can be seen among the Minangkabau and the Acehnese in Indonesia , as well as among the people of the Maldives .
In 1990-91 , Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia , fearing attack from Iraq following its invasion of Kuwait , played an important role supporting military action by the US and its allies .
Saudi Arabia repaid the debt Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia owed the countries whose forces had defeated Iraq , particularly the United States , in cash ( for example , $ 15 billion to the US alone ) and by purchasing large quantities of weapons from American companies and by supporting the U.S.-led peace process between Israel and the Palestinians .
A marked change in U.S.-Saudi relations occurred , as Abdullah sought to put distance between his policies and the unpopular pro-Western policies of King Fahd .
Relations with the US and other Western countries have been further strained by the perception that Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia has been a source of Islamist terrorist activity , not just internally , but also world-wide .
Visits between the two countries stress the deep and historical relations between Egypt and Saudi Arabia .
For Iran , Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia is said that there is no place for monarchical regimes in Islam , like the ones seen in Saudi Arabia and also in some other Arab countries .
Energy difference is a third source of tension between Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia and Iran .
A charter member of the Arab League , Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia has supported Palestinian rights to sovereignty , and called for withdrawal from the Occupied Territories since 1967 .
In response for Egypt `` betraying '' the Arab States and signing peace with Israel , Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia , along with all the Arab States , broke diplomatic relations with and suspended aid to Egypt , the two countries renewed formal ties in 1987 .
However , Saudi Arabia recognizes that Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia ally , the United States , has a strong and supportive relationship of Israel .
The country has appeared indecisive about Yemen ; in January the government was openly frustrated with President Ali Abdullah Saleh but there was a marked change in Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia approach in April to one of detailed analysis of the situation and private discussions over whom Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia should publicly support .
Overall , the structure of the Saudi state , and the current preoccupation with issues of succession , suggest that , even if Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia wanted to do so , Saudi Arabia is unlikely to have the capacity to act as a pan-regional counter-revolutionary force .
Migrant worker abuse and death sentences faced by Indonesian workers in Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia are the main problems strained diplomatic relations between two countries .
Relations between Japan and Saudi Arabia were established in 1955 .
Relations , both diplomatic and economic , are quite close between the two Muslim-majority Organisation of Islamic Cooperation members .
Since the inception of Pakistan , Pakistan has been playing a major and important role in the development of Foreign relations of Saudi Arabia .
Pakistan has provided assistance in the field of Science & Technology , infrastructure development and many more fields , Pakistan is providing training facilities to Saudi Armed forces .
Also in Karachi , there is an airforce base name Faisal Airbase named after King Faisal and also , in the honor of King Faisal , the main business street of Pakistan is called Sharah-e-Faisal in Karachi .
Wikileaks further revealed that , Prince Mohammed bin Nayef , Saudi Assistant Minister of the Interior , describes the Pakistani Chief of Army staff Ashfaq Parvez Kayani as a `` decent man '' and the Pakistani Army as Saudi Arabia 's `` winning horse '' and its `` best bet '' for `` stability '' .
Time interviewee , Arif Rafiq of an international consulting firm , stated that the cables `` demonstrate that the Saudis have deep vested interests in Pakistan and an influence that is so significant that even the U.S. in some way relies on Saudi knowledge of the country '' .
During the 17th and 18th centuries , numerous trading posts belonging to various colonial empires , were established along the coast .
The town of St. Louis became the capital of French West Africa ( Afrique occidentale française , or AOF ) before Senegal was moved to Dakar in 1902 .
One popular theory ( proposed by David Boilat in 1853 ) is that Senegal stems from the Wolof phrase sunu gaal , which means `` our canoe '' ( or pirogue ) , resulting from a miscommunication between 15th-century Portuguese sailors and Wolof fishermen .
In the Senegambia region , between 1300 and 1900 , close to one-third of the population was enslaved .
Various European powers -- Portugal , the Netherlands , and Great Britain -- competed for trade in the area from the 15th century onward , until in 1677 , France ended up in possession of what had become a minor slave trade departure point -- the island of Gorée next to modern Dakar , used as a base to purchase slaves from the warring chiefdoms on the mainland .
Abdou Diouf was president between 1981 and 2000 .
Senegal experienced Senegal second peaceful transition of power , and Senegal first from one political party to another .
Several youth opposition movements , including M23 and Y' en a Marre , emerged in June 2011 to contest the amendment .
The Cape Verde islands lie some off the Senegal coast , but Cap-Vert ( `` Cape Green '' ) is a maritime placemark , set at the foot of `` Les Mammelles '' , a cliff resting at one end of the Cap-Vert peninsula onto which is settled Senegal capital Dakar , and south of the `` Pointe des Almadies '' , the westernmost point in Africa .
As a member of the West African Economic and Monetary Union ( WAEMU ) , Senegal is working toward greater regional integration with a unified external tariff .
Senegal has a wide variety of ethnic groups and , as in most West African countries , several languages are widely spoken .
About 50,000 Europeans ( mostly French ) and Lebanese as well as smaller numbers of Mauritanians and Moroccans reside in Senegal , mainly in the cities .
The Serer language is widely spoken by both Serers and non-Serers ( including president Sall , whose mother and wife are Serers ) ; so are the Cangin languages , whose speakers are ethnically Serers .
Islam is practiced by approximately 94 percent of Senegal population ; the Christian community , at 5 percent of the population , includes Roman Catholics and diverse Protestant denominations .
Islamic communities in Senegal are generally organized around one of several Islamic Sufi orders or brotherhoods , headed by a khalif ( xaliifa in Wolof , from Arabic khalīfa ) , who is usually a direct descendant of the group 's founder .
The Halpulaar ( Pulaar-speakers ) , composed of Fula people , a widespread group found along the Sahel from Chad to Senegal , and Toucouleurs , represent 23.8 percent of the population .
Although many Serers are Christians or Muslim , their conversion to Islam in particular is very recent , who converted on their own free will rather than by force , although force had been tried centuries earlier unsuccessfully ( see the Battle of Fandane-Thiouthioune ) .
Senegambian ( both Senegal and the Gambia ) Muslim festivals such as Tobaski , Gamo , Koriteh , Weri Kor , etc. , are all borrowed words from the Serer religion .
The Lions of Teranga ( Les Lions de la Teranga ) kicked off their near-successful run at the African Cup of Nations on 20 January 2002 when beating Egypt 1-0 and subsequently leading their group overall with 7 points by 31 January 2002 .
Following a successful knockout round beating Congo in the quarter-finals ( 2-0 ) and Nigeria in the semi-finals ( 2-1 ) , The Lions went on to face Cameroon in the finals on 10 February 2002 .
Their first match ( which was also the opening game of the World Cup tournament ) shocked the world when defender Pape Bouba Diop scored Senegal only and winning goal beating the defending champions , France , 1-0 ( BBC , 2002 .
In the Senegambia the period when humans became hunters , fishermen and producers ( farmer and artisan ) are all well represented and studied .
History of Senegal is often described as beginning with the age of metallurgy , thus placing History of Senegal between the first metalworking and the appearance of writing .
History of Senegal area of influence slowly spread to regions between the river valleys of the Senegal and Niger .
John Donnelly Fage suggests that Takrur was formed through the interaction of Berbers from the Sahara and `` Negro agricultural peoples '' who were `` essentially Serer '' although its kings after 1000 CE might have been Soninke ( northern Mande ) .
In Casamance , the Baïnounks , the Manjaques and Diola inhabited the coastal area while the mainland -- unified 13th century under the name of Kaabu -- was occupied by the Mandingo .
In the mid-15th century , several European nations reached the coast of West Africa , vested successively or simultaneously by the Portuguese , the Dutchman , the English and French .
Europeans first settled along the coasts , on islands in the mouths of rivers and then a little further upstream .
The Europeans were sometimes disappointed because History of Senegal hoped to find more gold in West Africa , but when the development of plantations in the Americas , mainly in the Caribbean , in Brazil and in the south of the United States raised a great need for cheap labor , the area received more attention .
The island of Carabane , acquired by France in 1836 , was profoundly transformed between 1849 and 1857 by the resident Emmanuel Bertrand Bocandé , Nantes businessman .
Senegal and Soudan ( renamed the Republic of Mali ) proclaimed independence .
Léopold Senghor , internationally known poet , politician , and statesman , was elected Senegal 's first president in August 1960 .
As of late 2006 , History of Senegal seemed the peace treaty was holding , as both factions and the Senegalese military appeared to honor the treaty .
However , at the beginning of 2007 , refugees began fleeing again , as the sight of Senegalese troops rekindled fears of a new outbreak of violence between the separatists and the government .
The country 's total area is 196 190 km ² of which 192 000 km ² is land and 4 190 km ² is water , making the nation slightly smaller than Britain or the U.S. state of South Dakota .
In the southeast is Guinea ( 330 km border ) and to the southsouthwest is Guinea-Bissau ( 338 km ) , both borders running along the Casamance River .
Geography of Senegal also claims a continental shelf , or to the edge of the continental margin .
Wolof 30.3 % , Fula 33.8 % , Serer 14.7 % , Jola 3.7 % , Mandinka 3 % , Soninke 1.1 % , European , Lebanese and Vietnamese 1 % , other 9.4 % French ( official ) , Wolof , Pulaar , Serer , Jola , Mandinka Islam is the predominant religion , practiced by 95.4 percent of the country 's population ; the Christian community , at 4.2 percent of the population , includes Roman Catholics and diverse Protestant denominations .
The President of Senegal is the head of state and the Prime Minister of Senegal the head of government .
Similarly , although the Judiciary is theoretically independent of the executive and the legislature , the executive branch seems to exert undue control over the judiciary .
The Cour de Cassation ( Highest Appeals Court , equivalent to the U.S. Supreme Court ) and the Constitutional Council , the justices of which are named by the President , are the nation 's highest tribunals .
Senegal is member of ACCT , ACP , AfDB , ECA , ECOWAS , FAO , FZ , G-15 , G-77 , IAEA , IBRD , ICAO , ICCt , ICC , ICFTU , ICRM , IDA , IDB , IFAD , IFC , IFRCS , ILO , IMF , IMO , Inmarsat , Intelsat , Interpol , IOC , IOM , ITU , MIPONUH , NAM , OAU , OIC , OPCW , PCA , UN , UNCTAD , UNESCO , UNIDO , UNIKOM , UNMIBH , UNMIK , UNTAET , UPU , WADB , WAEMU , WCL , WCO , WFTU , WHO , WIPO , WMO , WToO , WTrO Senegal has acted as a mediator between Sudan and Chad over the crisis in Darfur .
Currently , there are no restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of capital and income earned , or investment financed with convertible foreign exchange .
With an external debt of U.S. $ 2,495 million , and with Economy of Senegal economic reform program on track , Senegal qualified for the multilateral debt relief initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries ( HIPC ) .
Inflation was reported to be 0.7 % compared to 0.8 % in 1999 , and the current account deficit ( excluding transfers ) was held at less than 6 % of GDP .
XOF ( West-African CFA ) , or 1 XOF = 0.001525 $ / $ to XOF / calendar year This is a chart of trend of gross domestic product of Senegal at market prices estimated by the International Monetary Fund with figures in millions of CFA Francs .
There are currently three cellular companies : the former Alizé , now Orange owned by Sonatel , Tigo/Sentel , 75 percent owned by Millicom International Cellular , and Expresso/Sudatel .
Transport in Senegal road network links closely with those of the Gambia , since the shortest route between south-western districts on the one hand and west-central and north-western districts on the other is through the Gambia .
total : 906 km narrow gauge : 906 km of gauge ( 70 km double track ) There were an estimated 4,271 km of paved roads and 10,305 km of unpaved roads as of 1996 .
Friendly to the West , especially to France and to the United States , Senegal also is a vigorous proponent of more assistance from developed countries to the Third World .
The growing split between blacks and Maures in Mauritania has , however , affected ties with Senegal , which sees Foreign relations of Senegal as championing the rights of Mauritania 's black minority .
Transshipment point for Southwest and Southeast Asian heroin moving to Europe and North America ; illicit cultivator of cannabis .
Seychelles president , who is head of state and head of government , is elected by popular vote for a five-year term of office .
The unicameral Seychellois parliament , the National Assembly or Assemblée Nationale , consists of 34 members , of whom 25 are elected directly by popular vote , while the remaining nine seats are appointed proportionally according to the percentage of votes received by each party .
Particularly well-known is the Coco de Mer , a species of palm that grows only on the islands of Praslin and neighbouring Curieuse .
This strange and ancient plant in a genus of Seychelles own ( Medusagynaceae ) has resisted all efforts to propagate Seychelles .
Seychelles imports three times more oil than is needed for internal uses because Seychelles re-exports the surplus oil in the form of bunker for ships and aircraft calling at Mahé .
Oil and gas imports , distribution and re-export are the responsibility of Seychelles Petroleum ( Sepec ) , while oil exploration is the responsibility of Seychelles National Oil Company ( SNOC ) .
From 1992 to 2000 , some countries , including the United States , referred to the FRY as `` Serbia and Montenegro '' .
However this situation changed after 1997 when Milošević 's second and last legal term as Serbian President ended .
By this time however , the influence of Slobodan Milošević was confined to Serbia only as Montenegro had experienced internal regime change in 1996 when former Milošević ally Milo Đukanović reversed his policies , showed resilience by becoming leader of his party and subsequently dismissing former Montenegrin leader Momir Bulatović , a man who remained loyal to Milošević .
After the dissolution , Serbia continued to be the legal successor of Serbia and Montenegro , while Montenegro re-applied for membership in international organizations .
With the collapse of communism across Eastern Europe , Serbia and Montenegro followed the wave of democratic change .
With the collapse of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia and Montenegro institutions from 1991 to 1992 , the issue of unity of the two republics remaining in the collapsing federation , Serbia , Montenegro , as well as Serb-majority territories in Croatia and Bosnia that wished to remain united , became an issue .
In 1991 diplomatic talks chaired by Lord Carrington with the leaders of the six republics of the collapsing federation , resulted in all the republics except for Serbia agreeing that Yugoslavia had collapsed and that each republic should become an independent state .
The Serbian government was surprised and outraged by Montenegro 's decision in favour of terminating Yugoslavia , as the Bulatovic government had previously been closely allied with Milosevic 's government in Serbia .
On 26 December 1991 , Serbia , Montenegro , and the Serb rebel-held territory in Croatia of Krajina agreed that they would form a new `` third Yugoslavia '' .
This was due to the ongoing Yugoslav wars during the 1990s , which had prevented agreement being reached on the disposition of federal assets and liabilities , particularly the national debt .
Because of that , the country was under economic and political sanctions , which resulted in economic disaster that forced thousands of Serbia and Montenegro young citizens to emigrate from the country .
In 1995 , Serbian President Slobodan Milošević represented the FRY and Bosnian Serbs at peace talks in Dayton , Ohio , USA , which negotiated the end of war in Bosnia with the Dayton Agreement .
From 1996 , the first public signs of political discord between parts of Montenegrin leadership and the Serbian leadership began to appear .
During autumn 1999 , following the Kosovo War and the NATO bombing campaign , Đukanović ( who by now firmly held power in Montenegro as Bulatović was completely squeezed out ) drafted a document called Platforma za redefiniciju odnosa Crne Gore i Srbije ( A platform for redefinition of relations within the Serbia and Montenegro ) calling for major changes in the division of governing responsibilities within Serbia and Montenegro though still officially seeing Montenegro within a joint state with Serbia .
Cuska massacre , Podujevo massacre , were some of the massacres committed by the Serbian police and paramilitaries during Serbia and Montenegro .
Despite the controversy , the United Nations proceeded to created a mandate in Kosovo , in which the province technically remained a part of Serbia ( or the FRY as it was then ) , but was completely autonomous .
The status of Kosovo was now greater than Serbia and Montenegro had been between 1974 and 1990 when it was at Serbia and Montenegro strongest ; the province followed Montenegro in rejecting the Yugoslav/Serbian Dinar in place of the international currencies , and went even further : Kosovo 's parliament created new car registration plates for its citizens , unlike Montenegro which continues to use the old FRY type licence plates two years after independence .
In 2002 , Serbia and Montenegro came to a new agreement regarding continued co-operation , which , among other changes , promised the end of the name Yugoslavia , since they were part of Serbia and Montenegro .
The turnout was 86.3 % and 99.73 % of the more than 477,000 votes cast were deemed valid .
After Serbia and Montenegro was reconstituted as a state union , the new Assembly of the State Union was created .
Belgrade , with Serbia and Montenegro population of 1,574,050 , is the largest city in the two nations : and the only one of significant size .
Further damage to Yugoslavia 's infrastructure and industry caused by the Kosovo War left the economy only half the size it was in 1990 .
The complexity of the FRY 's political relationships , slow progress in privatisation , and stagnation in the European economy were detrimental to the economy .
The complexity of Serbia and Montenegro political relationships , slow progress in privatisation , and stagnation in the European economy were detrimental to the economy .
Among the flag proposals , the popular choice was a flag with a shade of blue in between the Serbian tricolour and the Montenegrin tricolour of 1993-2004 .
A similar fate befell Serbia and Montenegro anthem and coat-of-arms to be ; the above-mentioned Article 23 also stipulated that a law determining the State Union 's flag and anthem was to be passed by the end of 2003 .
Serbia and Montenegro , later Serbia and Montenegro , were considered by FIFA and UEFA as the only successor of the former Yugoslavia .
Another reason for heightened expectations was the fact this was Serbia and Montenegro first major international appearance following the UN-imposed exile .
At the Eurobasket 1995 in Athens , its first international competition , the hungry and highly motivated Yugoslav team led by Dušan Ivković brought a starting five full of world-class talent with established European stars at positions one through four -- 27-year-old Saša Đorđević , 25-year-old Predrag Danilović , 29-year-old Žarko Paspalj , 22-year-old Dejan Bodiroga -- capped off with 27-year-old Vlade Divac , the starting center for the LA Lakers at the five position .
Serbia and Montenegro debuted in the Eurovision Song Contest under the name Serbia and Montenegro in 2004 , when Zeljko Joksimovic got 2nd place .
Arthur J. Stone ( 1847 -- 1938 ) , a leading American silversmith , was born , trained and worked in Sheffield , England , and Edinburgh , Scotland , before travelling to the United States in 1884 .
Tamils , along with other South Indians and Chinese ( 1.1 % of the population ) account for the other permanent inhabitants .
The local Seychellois Creole ( Kreol ) , a creole language derived from French and African tongues , is the native language of 91.8 % of the people ; but English and French are also commonly used .
President James Michel SPPF 16 April 2004 The Seychelles president , who is both head of state and head of government , is elected by popular vote for a five-year term of office .
Seychelles is divided in 25 administrative districts ; Anse aux Pins , Anse Boileau , Anse Etoile , Anse Royale , Au Cap , Baie Lazare , Baie Sainte Anne , Beau Vallon , Bel Air , Bel Ombre , Cascade , English River , Glacis , Grand ' Anse ( on Mahe ) , Grand ' Anse ( on Praslin ) , Inner Islands , Les mamelles , Mont Buxton , Mont Fleuri , Plaisance , Pointe Larue , Port Glaud , Roche Caiman , Saint Louis , Takamaka Agence de Coopération Culturelle et Technique , ACP , AfDB , African Union C , ECA , FAO , Group of 77 , IBRD , ICAO , International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement , IFAD , International Finance Corporation , IFRCS , International Labour Organization , International Monetary Fund , International Maritime Organization , InOC , Intelsat ( nonsignatory user ) , Interpol , IOC , International Organization for Standardization ( correspondent ) , International Trade Union Confederation , Non-Aligned Movement , , OPCW , Southern African Development Community , UN , UNCTAD , UNESCO , United Nations Industrial Development Organization , UPU , World Health Organization , WMO , WToO , WTrO ( applicant ) .
Manufacturing , construction , and industrial fishing , notably tuna fishing , account for about 28.8 % of the GDP .
Agriculture ( including artisanal and forestry ) , once the backbone of Economy of Seychelles , now accounts for only around 3 % of the GDP .
The public sector , comprising the government and state-owned enterprises , dominates the economy in terms of employment and gross revenue , employing two-thirds of the labor force .
The recent passage of a revised Mutual Fund Act 2007 , Securities Act 2007 and Insurance Act 2007 are meant to be the catalysts to move Seychelles from just another offshore jurisdiction to a full fledged Offshore Financial Center ( OFC ) .
However , to date all exploratory and stratigraphic test wells ( a total of 9 since the 1970s ) in the Seychelles have failed to find commercial hydrocarbons .
These include East African Exploration ( EAX ) ( a subsidiary of Afren ) , Avana Petroleum ( a subsidiary of Vanoil Energy ) and WHL Energy Beginning at the turn of the millennium the Seychelles Petroleum Company ( SEPEC ) started to develop the first fleet of modern petroleum double-hull tankers ( five vessels ) , which was completed by late 2007/early 2008 with the possibility to build more in the near future .
The Seychelles President claims that this has opened the door to a new industry for his country and encouraged economic growth by further removing over-reliance on traditional trades like fisheries and tourism , which is now falling rapidly as the country 's main income but nevertheless , has experienced significant growth in recent years .
Digital microwave systems were introduced to the Seychelles in 1992 and Cable & Wireless offers other services from Telecommunications in Seychelles Seychelles radio coast station .
There are also imported English and French language television programmes imported on Seycellois terrestrial television and the growth of international satellite television has grown rapidly in recent years .
The Internet was introduced in the Seychelles by Atlas Seychelles Ltd , a joint venture between the three leading computer companies , Victoria Computer Services ( Proprietary ) Ltd , Space 95 and MBM Seychelles Ltd , in September 1996 .
In June 2008 a new Internet cafe opened on Praslin , set up in the district administration office at Baie Ste Anne , under the sponsorship of the Jj Spirit Foundation , the Lions Club of Paradise Seychelles and Cable & Wireless .
Diplomatic relations between Seychelles and the Soviet Union were established on 30 June 1976 , a day after the island nation gained Foreign relations of Seychelles independence from the United Kingdom .
Britain assumed control of the Seychelles upon the surrender of Mauritius in 1812 and this was formalised in 1814 at the Treaty of Paris .
Peace Corps Volunteers served in Seychelles between 1974 and 1995 .
Sierra Leone ( or ) , officially the Republic of Sierra Leone , is Sierra Leone , and the Atlantic Ocean to the southwest .
Sierra Leone is divided into four administrative regions : the Northern Province , Eastern Province , Southern Province and the Western Area ; which are subdivided into fourteen districts .
Most of these Liberated Africans or ` Recaptives ' chose to remain in Sierra Leone .
Antagonism between the two entities escalated to a heated debate in 1947 , when proposals were introduced to provide for a single political system for both the Colony and the Protectorate .
In November 1951 , Margai oversaw the drafting of a new constitution , which united the separate Colonial and Protectorate legislatures and -- most importantly -- provided a framework for decolonisation .
In 1953 , Sierra Leone was granted local ministerial powers , and Sir Milton Margai , was elected Chief Minister of Sierra Leone .
The constitution was reinstated , and power was returned to Stevens , who at last assumed the office of Prime Minister .
The army was devoted to Bangura , and it was believed , in some quarters , that this made him potentially dangerous to Stevens .
The hostage crisis resulted in more fighting between the RUF and the government as UN troops launched Operation Khukri to end the siege .
Between 1991 and 2001 , about 50,000 people were killed in Sierra Leone civil war .
A runoff election was held in September 2007 , and Ernest Bai Koroma , the candidate of the main opposition APC , was elected president .
The northern section of this has been categorised by the World Wildlife Fund as part of the Guinean forest-savanna mosaic ecoregion , while the south is rain-forested plains and farmland .
The current system of government in Sierra Leone , established under the 1991 Constitution , is modelled on the following structure of government : the Legislature , the Executive and the Judiciary .
The All People 's Congress ( APC ) , won 59 of 112 parliamentary seats ; the Sierra Leone People 's Party ( SLPP ) won 43 ; and the People 's Movement for Democratic Change ( PMDC ) won 10 .
Some of that is smuggled , where Sierra Leone is possibly used for money laundering or financing illicit activities .
Sierra Rutile Limited , owned by a consortium of United States and European investors , began commercial mining operations near the city of Bonthe , in the Southern Province , in early 1979 .
The new Mines and Minerals Act was passed by Parliament in November 2009 , which aimed to improve concessions management in the Ministry of Mineral Resources .
The Western Area Urban District , including Freetown , the capital and largest city , has a population density of 1,224 persons per square km whereas the largest district Koinadugu has a density of 21.4 persons per square km .
Although English is the official language , spoken at schools , government administration and the media , Krio ( derived from English and several indigenous African languages , the language of the Sierra Leone Krio people ) , is the most widely spoken language in virtually all parts of Sierra Leone .
Muslims are estimated to comprise 60 % of Sierra Leone population according to the US Department of State , while 20 to 30 % are reported to be followers of Christianity , and 5 to 10 % of the population practice indigenous animist beliefs .
The 2007 UNHCR 's `` Report on International Religious Freedom in Sierra Leone '' estimated 60 % Muslim , 20 to 30 % Christian and 5 to 10 % other beliefs , with many citizens practising a mixture of Islam and traditional indigenous religious beliefs or Christianity and traditional indigenous beliefs .
Muslims predominate in all of the country 's three provinces and the Western Area , though formerly Sierra Leone were concentrated in the north with the south being mainly Christian .
The Temne are predominantly Muslims , while the Mende are about equal in numbers between Muslims and Christians .
Sierra Leone national politics centres on the competition between the north-west , dominated by the Temne , and the south-east dominated by the Mende None The Mende , who are believed to be descendants of the Mane , were originally in the Liberian hinterland .
The Fula are primarily traders and many live in middle-class homes .
The situation has improved considerably since then with primary school enrolment doubling between 2001 and 2005 and the reconstruction of many schools since the end of the war .
The Military of Sierra Leone , officially the Republic of Sierra Leone Armed Forces ( RSLAF ) , are the unified armed forces of Sierra Leone responsible for the territorial security of Sierra Leone 's border and defending the national interests of Sierra Leone within the framework of Sierra Leone international obligations .
According to a national survey ( Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey ) carried out in 2006 , 84 % of the urban population and 32 % of the rural population had access to an improved water source .
When the national football team , the Leone Stars , have a match , Sierra Leone across Sierra Leone rush to their local radio and television stations to follow the live match .
The standard of print journalism tends to be low due to lack of training , and people trust the information published in newspapers less than that found on the radio .
These levels do vary between areas of Sierra Leone , with the Western Area having the highest levels and Kailahun the lowest .
The use of iron was introduced to Sierra Leone by the 9th century , and by AD 1000 agriculture was being practiced by coastal tribes .
In the hilly savannah north of all of these were Susu and Fula .
b ) There is a time lag between the time a slave is captured and the time he or she is bought .
In 1788 a European apologist for the slave trade estimated the annual total exported from between the Rio Nunez ( 110 km north of Sierra Leone ) and the Sherbro as 3,000 .
The Mane ( also called Mani ) , southern members of the Mande language group , were a warrior people , well-armed and well-organized , who lived east and possibly somewhat north of present-day Sierra Leone , occupying a belt north of the coastal peoples .
History of Sierra Leone incorporated large numbers of the people History of Sierra Leone conquered into History of Sierra Leone army , with the result that by the time History of Sierra Leone reached Sierra Leone , the rank and file of their army consisted mostly of coastal peoples ; the Mane were History of Sierra Leone commanding group .
The Sapes had been un-warlike , but after the invasions , right until the late 19th century , bows , shields , and knives of the Mane type had become ubiquitous in Sierra Leone , as had the Mane battle technique of using squadrons of archers fighting in formation , carrying the large-style shields .
One component of this was the Poro , an organisation common to many different kingdoms and even ethnolinguistic groups .
Jesuits , and later in the century , Capuchins , continued the mission .
Around 1600 a Mani still ruled the Loko kingdom ( the area north of Port Loko Creek ) and another ruled the upper part of the south shore of the Freetown estuary .
Susu -- some already converted to Islam -- came south into Sierra Leone , in turn displacing Limba from north-west Sierra Leone and driving them into north-central Sierra Leone where they now are .
Britain and British seafarers -- including Sir Francis Drake , John Hawkins , Frobisher and Captain Brown -- played a major role in the transatlantic trade in captured Africans between 1530 and 1810 .
Over 10 million captured Africans were shipped to the Caribbean Islands and the Americas and many more died during the raids , the long marches to the coast and on the infamous middle passage due to the inhumane conditions in slave ships .
Britain outlawed the slave trade on 29 March 1807 with the Slave Trade Act 1807 and the British Navy operating from Freetown took active measures to stop the Atlantic slave trade .
Disputes soon broke out , and King Tom 's successor , King Jimmy , burnt the settlement to the ground in 1789 .
This settlement was different from the Freetown settlement and colony founded in 1792 by Lt. John Clarkson and the Nova Scotian Settlers under the auspices of the Sierra Leone Company In 1800 Sierra Leone was still only a small colony extending a few miles ( a few kilometres ) up the peninsula from Freetown .
The bulk of the territory that makes up present-day Sierra Leone was still the sovereign territory of indigenous peoples such as the Mende and Temne , and was little affected by the tiny population of the Colony .
To forestall French incursion into what History of Sierra Leone had come to consider as their own sphere , the British government renewed efforts to finalise a boundary agreement with France and on 1 January 1890 instructed Governor Hay in Sierra Leone to get from chiefs in the boundary area friendship treaties containing a clause forbidding them to treat with another European power without British consent .
Consequently , in 1890 and 1891 Hay and two travelling Commissioners , Garrett and Alldridge , went on extensive tours of what is now Sierra Leone obtaining treaties from chiefs .
In January 1895 a boundary agreement was signed in Paris , roughly fixing the line between French Guinea and Sierra Leone .
Samu chiefdom , for instance , was divided ; the people on the frontier had to opt for farms on one side or villages on the other '' .
In Sierra Leone , for example , the Mende , Temne , and Creoles remain as rival power blocs between whom lines of fission easily emerge .
The Protectorate Ordinances ( passed in the Colony in 1896 and 1897 ) abolished the title of King and replaced History of Sierra Leone with `` Paramount Chief '' ; chiefs and kings had formerly been selected by the leading members of their own communities , now all chiefs , even paramount ones , could be deposed or installed at the will of the Governor ; most of the judicial powers of the chiefs were removed and given to courts presided over by British `` District Commissioners '' ; the Governor decreed that a house tax of 5s to 10s was to be levied annually on every dwelling in the Protectorate .
When , in 1898 , attempts were made to actually collect the tax , History of Sierra Leone rose up , first in the north , led by a dominant Temne chief called Bai Bureh , and then in Mende country to the south .
Some Mende rebels in the centre of the country were not beaten until November , however ; and Mende king Nyagua 's son Maghi , in alliance with some Kissi , fought on in the extreme east of the Protectorate until August 1899 .
The principals , Bai Bureh , Nyagua and Be Sherbro ( Gbana Lewis ) , were exiled to the Gold Coast on 30 July 1899 ; a large number of their subordinates were executed .
Prominent among the Creoles demanding change were the bourgeois nationalist H.C. Bankole-Bright , General Secretary of the Sierra Leone Branch of the National Congress of British West Africa ( NCBWA ) , and the socialist ITA .
In 1961 , Outspoken critic of the SLPP government , Siaka Stevens , formed an alliance with several prominent northern politicians like Sorie Ibrahim Koroma , Christian Alusine-Kamara Taylor , Mohamed.O.Bash-Taqi , Ibrahim Bash-Taqi S.A.T. Koroma and C.A. Fofana to form their own political party called the All People 's Congress ( APC ) in opposition of the SLPP government .
The group constituted History of Sierra Leone as the National Reformation Council ( NRC ) with Brigadier Anrew Juxon-Smith as History of Sierra Leone chairman and Head of State of the country None In April 1968 , a group of senior military officers who called themselves the Anti-Corruption Revolutionary Movement led by Brigadier General John Amadu Bangura overthrew the NRC junta .
The democratic constitution was restored , and power was handed back to Stevens , who at last assumed the office of Prime Minister .
On January 16 , 1996 after about four years in power , Strasser was arrested in a coup by his fellow NPRC soldiers , led by his deputy Brigadier Julis Maada Bio and backed by many high ranking soldiers of the NPRC junta .
President Kabbah open dialogue with the RUF and invited RUF leader Foday Sankoh for peace negotiation .
Koroma suspended the constitution , banned demonstrations , shut down all private radio stations in the country and invited the RUF to join the new junta government , with History of Sierra Leone leader Foday Sankoh as the Vice-Chairman of the new AFRC-RUF coalition junta government .
On October 12 , 1998 twenty-five soldiers in the Sierra Leone army , including Corporal Tamba Gborie , Brigadier Hassan Karim Conteh , Colonel Samuel Francis Koroma , Major Kula Samba and Colonel Abdul Karim Sesay , were executed by firing squad after they were convicted at a court martial in Freetown for orchestrating the 1997 coup that ousted president Kabbah from power .
Between 1991 and 2001 , about 50,000 people were killed in Sierra Leone 's civil war .
Subsequently , the Sierra Leonean Government and the UN agreed to set up the Special Court for Sierra Leone to try those who `` bear the greatest responsibility for the commission of crimes against humanity , war crimes and serious violations of international humanitarian law , as well as crimes under relevant Sierra Leonean law within the territory of Sierra Leone since 30 November 1996 '' .
Foday Sankoh , already in custody , was indicted , along with notorious RUF field commander Sam `` Mosquito '' Bockarie , Johnny Paul Koroma , and Hinga Norman , the Minister of Interior and former head of the Civil Defense Force , among several others .
Geography of Sierra Leone is located on the west coast of Africa , between the 7th and 10th parallels north of the equator .
The climate is tropical , although Geography of Sierra Leone could be classified as a tropical monsoon climate Geography of Sierra Leone could also be describe as a climate that is transitional between a continually wet tropical rainforest climate and a tropical savanna climate .
Average rainfall is highest at the coast , 3000 -- 5000 mm per year , moving inland this decreases and at the eastern border of the country the average rainfall is 2000-2500mm .
As result large scale agriculture of commodity products , industrial development and sustainable investments have been neglected by governments .
In the 1970s and early 1980s , economic growth rate slowed because of a decline in the mining sector .
This is a chart of trend of gross domestic product of Sierra Leone at market prices estimated by the International Monetary Fund and EconStats with figures in millions of Sierra Leone Leones .
The company and the Government of Sierra Leone concluded a new agreement on the terms of Economy of Sierra Leone concession in Sierra Leone in 1990 .
Telecommunications in Sierra Leone consist of an estimated total of 25,000 main telephone lines in use as of 2001 , and 17,000 as of 1995 .
general assessment : marginal telephone service with poor infrastructure domestic : the national microwave radio relay trunk system connects Freetown to Bo and Kenema ; while mobile-cellular service is growing rapidly from a small base , service area coverage remains limited .
Sierra Leone no longer has any common carrier railroads , as the gauge Sierra Leone Government Railway from Freetown through Bo to Kenema and Daru with a branch to Makeni closed in 1974 .
Because of widespread poverty , high petroleum prices and a large portion of the population residing in small communities , walking is often the preferred method of transportation in Sierra Leone .
Republic of Sierra Leone Armed Forces then remained largely unchanged for 16 years until in 1995 when Defence Headquarters ( DHQ ) was established and the Sierra Leone Air Wing ( SLAW ) formed .
He came from the Mende tribe as did Margai and conflicts existed between northern tribes , the Krios and the Mendes .
The eight men arrested were found with AK-47 automatic rifles and bags of fish , including high-value snapper , taken off the Sierra Leone-licensed vessels .
Between the 16th and early 19th centuries , Singapore was part of the Johor Sultanate .
The Sook Ching massacre of ethnic Chinese after the fall of Singapore claimed between 5,000 and 25,000 lives .
During the 1950s Communists , mostly supported by the Chinese-speaking group , with strong ties to the trade unions and Chinese schools , carried out an armed struggle against Singapore , resulting in the Malayan Emergency and later , the Communist Insurgency War .
The Malaysians insisted on a pro-Bumiputera ( Malay for indigenous ) society , where indigenous Malays and tribes were given special Bumiputera rights , which still exist to this day to assist the majority Malay community who were left behind in terms of economic share of Singapore compared to the minority Chinese and to maintain harmony within a multiethnic society .
The Singaporeans , on the other hand , wanted an equal and meritocratic society , a Malaysian Malaysia where all citizens were given equal rights .
As part of Malaysia , Singapore economic and social development came to a halt as the Malaysian parliament blocked many bills .
In 2011 , in the World Justice Project 's Rule of Law Index Singapore was ranked in the top countries surveyed in `` Order and Security '' , `` Absence of Corruption '' , and `` Effective Criminal Justice '' .
As one of the five founding members of the ASEAN , Singapore is a strong supporter of the ASEAN Free Trade Area and the ASEAN Investment Area , because Singapore economic growth is closely linked with the economic progress of the region as a whole .
Singapore has conscription for all able-bodied males at age 18 , except those with a criminal record or who can prove that their loss would bring hardship to their families .
Due to airspace and land constraints , the Republic of Singapore Air Force ( RSAF ) maintains a number of overseas bases in Australia , the United States , and France .
Nearly half a million speak other Chinese languages ( which the government describes as `` dialects '' ) , mainly Hokkien , Teochew , and Cantonese , as their home language , although the use of these is declining in favour of Mandarin and English .
Today , in general , Malay is spoken within the Singaporean Malay community , with only 16.8 % of all Singaporeans literate in Malay and only 12 % using Singapore as their native language .
There are four standard subjects taught to all students : English , the mother tongue , mathematics , and science .
Of all non-student Singaporeans aged 15 and above , 18 % have no education qualifications at all while 45 % have the Primary School Leaving Examination as their highest qualification .
15 % have the GCE ` O ' Level as their highest qualification and 14 % have a degree .
Singapore two main public universities -- the National University of Singapore and Nanyang Technological University -- are among the top 50 in the world .
This has three components : Medifund , which provides a safety net for those not able to otherwise afford healthcare , Medisave , a compulsory health savings scheme covering about 85 % of the population , and Medishield , a government-funded health insurance scheme .
Both of the former Prime Ministers of Singapore , Lee Kuan Yew and Goh Chok Tong , have stated that Singapore does not fit the traditional description of a nation , calling it a society in transition , pointing out the fact that Singaporeans do not all speak the same language , share the same religion or have the same customs .
Many national symbols such as the National Coat of Arms and the Lion Head symbol make use of Singapore , as Singapore is known as the ` Lion City ' .
As with most Commonwealth countries , vehicles on the road and people walking on the streets keep to the left .
Car buyers must pay for duties one-and-a-half times the vehicle 's market value and bid for a Singaporean Certificate of Entitlement ( COE ) , which allows the car to run on the road for a decade .
The Port of Singapore , managed by port operators PSA International and Jurong Port , was the world 's second-busiest port in 2005 in terms of shipping tonnage handled , at 1.15 billion gross tons , and in terms of containerised traffic , at 23.2 million twenty-foot equivalent units ( TEUs ) .
The Malays are recognised as the indigenous community although most are the descendants of post-1945 immigrants from Indonesia and Malaysia .
Singapore 's resident total fertility rate ( TFR ) was of 1.2 in 2011 ; the Chinese , Malay and Indian fertility rate was 1.08 , 1.64 and 1.09 respectively .
In 1966 , the Family Planning and Population Board ( FPPB ) had been established based on the findings of the white paper , providing clinical services and public education on family planning .
This was done out of the Lee Kuan Yew government 's belief that for the nation to best develop and avoid hardship , the educated classes should be encouraged to contribute to the nation 's breeding pool , while the uneducated should not , sparking the Great Marriage Debate .
As of 2012 , Singapore total fertility rate ( TFR ) is 1.20 children born per woman , which represents a sub-replacement fertility rate and is one of the lowest in the world .
Official figures show that the number of foreigners on short-term permits ( termed ` non-residents ' ) has grown from 30,900 in 1970 to 797,900 in 2005 , which translate roughly to a 24-fold increase in 35 years , or from 1 % of the population in 1970 to 18.3 % in 2005 .
The use of other Chinese dialects , like Hokkien , Teochew , Cantonese , Hainanese and Hakka , has been declining over the last two decades , although they are still being used especially by the older generations of the Chinese population .
Singapore generally allows religious freedom , although some religious sects are restricted or banned , such as Jehovah 's Witness , due to Demographics of Singapore opposition of National Service .
Politics of Singapore takes the form of a parliamentary representative democratic republic whereby the President of Singapore is the head of state , the Prime Minister of Singapore is the head of government , and of a multi-party system .
The legislature is the parliament , which consists of the president as Politics of Singapore head and a single chamber whose members are elected by popular vote .
Foreign political analysts and several opposition parties including the Workers ' Party of Singapore and the Singapore Democratic Party ( SDP ) have argued that Singapore is a de facto one-party state .
Although Singapore 's laws are inherited from British and British Indian laws , including many elements of English common law , the PAP has also consistently rejected liberal democratic values , which Politics of Singapore typifies as Western and states that there should not be a ` one-size-fits-all ' solution to a democracy .
This development has led to complaints from opposition parties that Politics of Singapore are often unable to field one , let alone three or more candidates .
Since stepping down as prime minister , Lee has remained influential first as Senior Minister , and now as Minister Mentor .
In 26 January 2013 , Ms Lee Li Lian became the second woman from an opposition party to win a seat in Parliament by 3182 votes over the ruling party 's candidate , Dr Koh Poh Koon , in a by-election in Punggol East , after Sylvia Lim Swee Lian , currently the Chairperson of the opposition Workers ' Party ( WP ) and an elected Member of Parliament ( MP ) representing Aljunied Group Representation Constituency ( Aljunied GRC ) whose team won 54.71 % of the votes ( 54.72 % including overseas votes ) , the first time that an opposition party won a GRC since the system 's introduction on 1 June 1988 .
Total population : 956,704 ( as of 2011 ) The planning , construction and maintenance of the road network is overseen by the Land Transport Authority ( LTA ) , and this extends to expressways in Singapore .
Singapore 's only cable car system , the Singapore Cable Car , plies between Mount Faber on the main island of Singapore and the resort island of Sentosa as an alternative means of accessing that tourist attraction .
About 5.308 million trips are made on a daily basis on the public transport system and at least half of Transport in Singapore population utilizes Transport in Singapore daily .
About 52.4 % of Singaporean residents ( excluding foreigners ) go to work using public transport according to the Singapore Census of Population 2000 , with 41.6 % using private transport and the remaining 6.1 % not requiring any form of transport .
The Mass Rapid Transit ( MRT ) is a standard gauge system with a total rail network length of and 102 stations , including under-construction and under-planning .
Total fleet : 27,051 ( as of 2011 ) All taxis are fitted with meters ; all are air conditioned ; the majority of the taxis are 5-seaters ; about 90 % of taxis have radiophones ; call booking is done via GPS or digital voice dispatch .
The Johor-Singapore Causeway , built in the 1920s to connect Johor Bahru in Johor , Malaysia to Woodlands in Singapore , carries a road and a railway line .
A rapid transit link between Johor Bahru and Woodlands has been planned to replace the remaining railway line by 2018 .
The Port of Singapore , run by the port operators PSA International ( formerly the Port of Singapore Authority ) and Jurong Port , is the world 's busiest in terms of shipping tonnage handled 1.04 billion gross tons were handled in the year 2004 , crossing the one billion mark for the first time in Singapore 's maritime history .
Historical baggage , including the traumatic separation from Malaysia , and Konfrontasi with Indonesia , have caused a siege mentality of sorts .
During British rule in Foreign relations of Singapore and then under British Malaya before independence , Foreign relations of Singapore and the former Republic of China had diplomatic relations .
Other examples of close ties between Foreign relations of Singapore and China include Foreign relations of Singapore helping China to build up its industries such as the Suzhou Industrial Park .
In 2010 , bilateral trade talks commenced to explore the feasibility of an economic cooperation agreement between the Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan , Penghu , Kinmen and Matsu ( Chinese Taipei ) and Foreign relations of Singapore , both of whom are members of the World Trade Organization ( WTO ) .
On 12 September 2012 , former Taiwanese Vice-President Lien Chan announced that talks between Taiwan and Foreign relations of Singapore on a proposed economic partnership agreement are expected to be finalised by the end of the year .
These exercises , engaging as many as 10,000 troops at one time , provided officers a chance to simulate wartime conditions more closely and gain experience in the command and control of operations involving several battalions .
Although China has officially offered Singapore to shift Foreign relations of Singapore training facilities to Hainan Island , this has been refused in order to maintain Foreign relations of Singapore policy of neutrality between the ` One China ' policy and Foreign relations of Singapore relations with Taiwan .
Canada -- Foreign relations of Singapore relations are bilateral relations between Canada and Foreign relations of Singapore .
The government of Foreign relations of Singapore believes that regional security , and by extension , Singapore 's security will be affected if the United States loses its resolve in Iraq .
Under a Memorandum of Understanding signed in 1990 , the United States military is permitted to use Paya Lebar Airbase and Sembawang wharves ; a US naval logistic unit was established in Foreign relations of Singapore in 1992 .
The Singapore government believes that regional security , and by extension Singapore 's security , will be affected if the United States loses Foreign relations of Singapore resolve in Iraq .
In 2003 , Foreign relations of Singapore and the United States signed the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement ( USSFTA ) , which came into force in January 2004 .
Four Singaporean CH-47 Chinook helicopters and 45 RSAF personnel from a training detachment based in Grand Prairie , Texas , were sent to help in relief operations .
Mention of the Slav presence also comes in the writings of Pliny the Elder ( 79 A.D. ) and of Tacitus Cornelius ( 55 -- 116 A.D. ) .
Samo 's Empire , the first known political formation of Slavs , disappeared after the death of History of Slovakia founder in 665 and History of Slovakia territory was again included into Avar Khaganate .
All information , based on written sources , on the `` Principality of Nitra '' was recorded in two entries in Conversio Bagoariorum et Carantanorum ( The Conversion of the Bavarians and the Carantanians ) around 870 .
Excavations revealed that at least three Nitra castles ( Pobedim , Čingov , and Ostrá skala ) were destroyed around the time Pribina was expelled .
When Mojmír I endeavoured to secede from the supremacy of the king of East Francia in 846 , King Louis the German deposed him and assisted Mojmír 's nephew , Rastislav ( 846 -- 870 ) in acquiring the throne .
Numerous fortified castles built throughout the country are dated to his reign and some of them ( e.g. , Dowina - Devín Castle ) are also mentioned in connection with Rastislav by Frankish chronicles .
Svatopluk also withstood attacks of the seminomadic Hungarian tribes and the Bulgarian Empire , although sometimes it was he who hired the Hungarians when waging war against East Francia .
In the meantime , the Hungarian tribes , having suffered a defeat from the nomadic Pechenegs , left their territories east of the Carpathian Mountains , invaded the Pannonian Basin and started to occupy the territory gradually around 896 .
In three battles ( 4 -- 5 July and 9 August 907 ) near Brezalauspurc ( now Bratislava ) , the Hungarians routed Bavarian armies .
On the other hand , historians has not reached a consensus on this subject ; e.g. , History of Slovakia is still being debated whether the formation of the basic unit of the administration ( vármegye ) in the kingdom followed foreign ( Bulgarian , Moravian or German ) patterns or History of Slovakia was an internal innovation .
The scarcely populated northern and north-eastern territories of today Slovakia became the kings ' private forests .
Royal privileges prove that several families of the developing local nobility ( e.g. , the Zathureczky , Pominorszky and Viszocsányi families ) were of Slavic origin .
The decay of the royal power and the rise of some powerful aristocrats gave rise to the transformation of the administrative system : the counties that had been the basic units of the royal administration ( `` royal counties '' ) transformed gradually into autonomous administrative units of the local nobility ( `` noble counties '' ) ; however , the local nobility was not able to stop the rise of oligarchs .
The king confirmed the privileges of the 24 `` Saxon '' towns in Szepes / Spiš , strengthened the special rights of Eperjes / Prešov and granted town privileges to Szomolnok / Smolník .
In the region of Szepes / Spiš , some elements of the population received special privileges : the 24 `` Saxon '' towns formed an autonomous community , independent of Szepes county / Spiš county , and the `` nobles with ten lances '' were organised into a special autonomous administrative unit ( `` seat '' ) .
In December 1385 , the future King Sigismund , who was Queen Mary of Hungary 's prince consort at that time , mortgaged the territories of present-day Slovakia west of the Vág / Váh River to his cousins , the Margraves Jobst and Prokop of Moravia ; and the former held his territories until 1389 , while the latter could maintain his rule over some of the territories until 1405 .
At the same time , the movement was divided along the confessional lines and various groups had different views on everything from quotidian strategy to linguistics .
Turz-Sankt Martin ( Martin / Túrócszentmárton ) became the foremost center of the Slovak National Movement with foundation of the nationwide cultural association Matica slovenská ( 1863 ) , the Slovak National Museum , and the Slovak National Party ( 1871 ) .
The Roman Catholic faction of Slovak politicians led by Father Andrej Hlinka focused on small undertakings among the Slovak public and , shortly before the war , established a political party named the Slovak People 's Party .
These , and other organizations in Russia and in neutral countries , backed the idea of a Czecho-Slovak republic .
The most important Slovak representative at this time , Milan Rastislav Štefánik , a French citizen of Slovak origin , served as a French general and as leading representative of the Czecho-Slovak National Council based in Paris .
Political representatives at home , including representatives of all political persuasions , after some hesitation , gave their support to the activities of Masaryk , Beneš and Štefánik .
In November , by the First Vienna Award , Italy and Germany compelled Czechoslovakia ( later Slovakia ) to cede primarily Hungarian-inhabited Southern Slovakia to Hungary .
The Beneš decrees , adopted as a result of the events of the war , led to disenfranchisement and persecution of the Hungarian minority in southern Slovakia .
The 1970s and 1980s became known as the period of `` normalization '' , in which the apologists for the 1968 Soviet invasion prevented as best they could any opposition to their conservative régime .
In fact , the Slovak Republic saw comparatively high economic growth in the 1970s and 1980s relative to the Czech Republic ( and mostly from 1994 till ) .
On 1 January 1993 , the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic each simultaneously and peacefully proclaimed their existence .
In elections held in June 1992 , Václav Klaus 's Civic Democratic Party won in the Czech lands on a platform of economic reform , and Vladimír Mečiar 's Movement for a Democratic Slovakia ( HZDS ) emerged as the leading party in Slovakia , basing its appeal on the fairness of Slovak demands for autonomy .
Mečiar remained the leader ( in opposition ) of the HZDS , which continued to receive the support of 20 % or more of the population during the first Dzurinda government .
In the September 2002 parliamentary election , a last-minute surge in support for Prime Minister Dzurinda 's Slovak Democratic and Christian Union ( SDKÚ ) gave him a mandate for a second term .
The Communist government emphasized heavy and arms industry .
Other ethnic groups include Roma ( 2.0 % ) , Czechs , Croats , Rusyns , Ukrainians , Germans , Poles , Serbs and Jews ( about 2,300 remain of the estimated pre-WWII population of 120,000 ) .
While both international organizations ( the United Nations and the World Bank ) and the official Slovak statistics office offer population figures for ethnic groups , these figures seldom come close to agreement .
Figures for the Roma population ( for a variety of reasons ) vary between 1 % and 10 % of the population .
The official state language is Slovak , and Hungarian is widely spoken in the southern regions .
About 45 % of Slovaks live in villages with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants , and 14 % in villages with fewer than 1,000 .
The country 's highest appellate forum is the Supreme Court ( Najvyšší súd ) , the judges of which are elected by the National Council ; below that are regional , district , and military courts .
Since the establishment of the Slovak Republic in January 1993 , Slovakia has undergone a transition from a centrally planned economy to a free market economy , a process which some observers were to believe was slowed in the 1994 -- 98 period due to the crony capitalism and other fiscal policies of Prime Minister Vladimír Mečiar 's government .
Two governments of the `` liberal-conservative '' Prime Minister Mikuláš Dzurinda ( 1998 -- 2006 ) pursued policies of macroeconomic stabilization and market-oriented structural reforms .
Unemployment peaked at 19.2 % None ( Eurostat regional indicators ) in 2001 and though Economy of Slovakia has fallen to ( depending on the methodology ) 9.8 % ( ( cn ) ) or 13.5 % as of September 2006 , Economy of Slovakia remains a problem .
In October 2005 new investment stimuli introduced -- more favorable conditions to IT and research centers , especially to be located in the east part of the country ( where is more unemployment ) , to bring more added value and not to be logistically demanding .
Foreign direct investment '' on green field '' Slovak service sector grew rapidly during the last 10 years and now employs about 69 % of the population and contributes with over 61 % to GDP .
Heavy industry ( including coal mining and the production of machinery and steel ) was built for strategic reasons because Slovakia was less exposed to the military threat than the western parts of Czechoslovakia .
After the end of the Cold War , the importance of industry , and especially of heavy industry , declined .
Nowadays , building on a long-standing tradition and a highly skilled labor force , main industries with potential of growth are following sectors : Automotive , Electronics , Mechanical engineering , Chemical engineering , Information technology .
According to a recent report by the European Commission , Slovakia ( along with some other Central and Eastern European economies ) is low down on the list of EU states in the area of innovation ( Slovakia ranks 22nd ) .
Many of these offer triple-play services consisting of a fixed line service , broadband internet access and access to television programmes .
ADSL or ADSL2 + is available in almost every town in Slovakia .
Slovakia 's plan for defense reform is the Force 2015 Long-Term Plan , which strikes a balance between requirements and resources and which envisions a professionalized , combat-capable force of 22,000 uniformed personnel by 2009 .
Slovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs about Ján Kubiš 's visit to Armenia / ref > Since August 1995 India has an embassy in Bratislava and Slovakia has an embassy in New Delhi .
It was n't until Soderbergh came back to Baton Rouge that Steven Soderbergh conceived the idea for Sex , Lies , and Videotape ( 1989 ) , which Steven Soderbergh wrote in eight days .
A romantic drama set in post-war Berlin , The Good German , starring Cate Blanchett and Clooney , was released in late 2006 .
The sixth pairing of Clooney and Steven Soderbergh , Ocean 's Thirteen , was released in June 2007 .
On May 22 , 2008 , Che , which was released in theatres in two parts titled The Argentine and Guerrilla , was presented in the main competition of the 2008 Cannes film festival .
In 2010 , Steven Soderbergh shot the action-thriller Haywire , starring Gina Carano , Ewan McGregor , Michael Fassbender , and Channing Tatum which , even though was shot in early 2010 , was not released until January 2012 .
Steven Soderbergh next project , the psychological thriller Side Effects , starred Jude Law , Rooney Mara , Channing Tatum and Catherine Zeta-Jones .
The book , by Michael Lewis , tells of how Billy Beane , general manager of Oakland Athletics , used statistical analysis to make up for what Steven Soderbergh lacked in funds to beat the odds and lead Steven Soderbergh team to a series of notable wins in 2002 .
Disagreements between Sony and Steven Soderbergh about revisions to Steven Zaillian 's version of the screenplay led to Steven Soderbergh dismissal from the project only days prior to filming in June 2009 .
Beginning in the fall of 2014 , Steven Soderbergh planned a 3D live-action rock musical film based on Cleopatra 's life entitled Cleo , with Catherine Zeta-Jones set to play Cleopatra , and with music by the band Guided by Voices .
But the actor Steven Soderbergh has collaborated most frequently with is George Clooney , who played the leading role six of Steven Soderbergh films , and with whom Steven Soderbergh co-owned the film production company , Section Eight Productions .
Soderbergh often acts as Steven Soderbergh own director of photography under the alias of Peter Andrews and occasionally as Steven Soderbergh own editor under the alias of Mary Ann Bernard , Steven Soderbergh mother 's maiden name .
Steven Soderbergh has made big-budget Hollywood films as well as art-house independent films ; works with above-the-title movie stars and unknowns ; directs adaptations and original material , both of which written by himself as well as other screenwriters .
Even Steven Soderbergh light-hearted affairs , such as Out of Sight and Ocean 's 11 , contain scenes where images and score are the dominant story-telling mechanisms .
For example , the protagonists in two early films , King of the Hill and Sex , Lies , and Videotape , are both pathological liars ( one in training , one in recovery ) , while most of the characters in all three Oceans films are con artists .
In Steven Soderbergh review of Full Frontal film critic Roger Ebert commented that , `` Every once in a while , perhaps as an exercise in humility , Steven Soderbergh makes a truly inexplicable film ... A film so amateurish that only the professionalism of some of the actors makes it watchable ... It 's the kind of film where you need the director telling you what Steven Soderbergh meant to do and what went wrong and how the actors screwed up and how there was no money for retakes , etc. '' About Soderbergh 's film , The Good German and Steven Soderbergh emphasis on style over substance , film critic Richard Roeper commented that the film had to offer , `` a lot of style .
`` The fact that Steven Soderbergh 'm not an identifiable brand is very freeing , '' says Soderbergh , `` because people get tired of brands and they switch brands .
On Monday , April 5 , 2009 , Soderbergh appeared before the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives , and `` cited the French initiative in asking lawmakers to deputize the American film industry to pursue copyright pirates , '' indicating Steven Soderbergh supports anti-piracy laws and Internet regulation .
Slovenia , officially Slovenia , is a nation state in Central Europe at the crossroads of main European cultural and trade routes .
In 1920s and 1930s , artifacts belonging to the Cro-Magnon such as pierced bones , bone points , and needle have been found by archeologist Srečko Brodar in Potok Cave .
The Slavic tribes migrated to the Alpine area after the departure of the Lombards ( the last Germanic tribe ) westwards in 568 , and with aid from Avars established Slavic settlement of the Eastern Alps .
The proposal was picked up by most Slovene parties , and a mass mobilization of Slovene civil society , known as the Declaration Movement , followed .
On 1 December 1918 the State of Slovenes , Croats and Serbs merged with Serbia , becoming part of the new Kingdom of Serbs , Croats and Slovenes ; in 1929 Slovenia was renamed as the Kingdom of Yugoslavia .
The Slovene minority in Italy ( 1920-1947 ) lacked any minority protection under international or domestic law .
Clashes between the Italian authorities and Fascist squads on one side , and the local Slovene population on the other , started as early as 1920 , culminating with the burning of the Narodni dom , the Slovenian National Hall of Trieste .
Between 1949 and 1953 , a forced collectivisation was attempted .
A new economic policy , known as workers self-management , started to be implemented under the advice and supervision of the Slovene Edvard Kardelj , the main theorist of the Yugoslav Communist Party .
After the economic reform and further economic decentralisation of Yugoslavia in 1965 and 1966 , Slovenia was approaching a market economy .
The Constitutional Court , composed of nine judges elected for nine-year terms , decides on the conformity of laws with the Constitution ; all laws and regulations must conform with the general principles of international law and with ratified international agreements .
The Slovenian Armed Forces provide military defence independently or within an alliance , in accordance with international agreements .
The Geometrical Centre of Slovenia is located at coordinates 46 ° 07 ' 11.8 '' N and 14 ° 48 ' 55.2 '' E .
The term `` Karst topography '' refers to that of southwestern Slovenia 's Kras Plateau , a limestone region of underground rivers , gorges , and caves , between Ljubljana and the Mediterranean .
On the Pannonian plain to the East and Northeast , toward the Croatian and Hungarian borders , the landscape is essentially flat .
Protected areas of Slovenia include national parks , regional parks , and nature parks , the largest of which is Triglav National Park .
In the Northeast , the continental climate type with greatest difference between winter and summer temperatures prevails .
Precipitation varies across Slovenia as well , with over 3500 mm in some Western regions and dropping down to 800 mm in Prekmurje .
The territory of Slovenia mainly ( 16423 km2 , i.e. 81 % ) belongs to the Black Sea basin , and a smaller part ( 16423 km2 , i.e. 19 % ) belongs to the Adriatic Sea basin .
Around 12.5 % of the territory is protected with different protection categories , and 35.5 % within the Natura 2000 ecological network .
Trapping these animals is a long tradition and is a part of the Slovenian national identity .
Various other birds of prey have been recorded , as well as a growing number of ravens , crows and magpies migrating into Ljubljana and Maribor where they thrive .
The marble trout or marmorata ( Salmo marmoratus ) is an indigenous Slovenian fish .
The lime/linden tree , also common in Slovenian forests , is a national symbol.The tree line is at 1,700 to 1,800 metres ( or 5,575 to 5,900 ft ) .
The economically most prosperous statistical regions are the Central Slovenia and the Slovenian Littoral , while the poorest are the Mura , the Central Sava and the Carinthia .
By 2018 , 41.5 MW HE Brežice and 30.5 MW HE Mokrice hydro power plants will be built on Sava river .
Renewable energy in Slovenia : at the end of 2011 at least 87 MWp of photovoltaic modules were installed and 22 MW of biogas powerplants .
Slovenia capital , Ljubljana , has many important Baroque and Vienna Secession buildings , with several important works of the native born architect Jože Plečnik .
These are mostly immigrants who moved to Slovenia from other former Yugoslav republics from the 1960s to the late 1980s , and their descendants .
Czech , which used to be the fourth largest minority language in Slovenia prior to World War II ( after German , Hungarian and Serbo-Croatian ) , is now the native language of a few hundred Slovenian residents .
Despite a relatively small number of Protestants ( less than 1 % in 2002 ) , the Protestant legacy is important because of Slovenia historical significance , given that the Slovene standard language and Slovene literature were established by the Protestant Reformation in the 16th century .
The third largest denomination , with around 2.2 % of the population , is Orthodox Christianity , with most adherents belonging to the Serbian Orthodox Church while a minority belongs to the Macedonian and other Orthodox churches .
According to data from 2008 , there were around 100,000 non-EU citizens living in Slovenia , or around 5 % of the overall population of Slovenia .
Among several universities in Slovenia , the best ranked is the University of Ljubljana , ranking among the first 500 or the first 3 % of the world 's best universities according to the ARWU .
The roasted potatoes , which have been traditionally served in most Slovenian families only on Sundays - preceded by a meat-based soup , such as beef or chicken soup - have been depicted on a special edition of post marks by the Post of Slovenia on 23 November 2012 .
Slovene screenwriters , who are not film directors , include Saša Vuga and Miha Mazzini .
In the Bukla Magazine , issued free of charge , both fiction and non-fiction Slovene books published in the previous month are reviewed since 2005 .
Oberkrainer music , which the Avsenik Ensemble popularized , is always a strong candidate for country ( folk ) music awards in Slovenia and Austria .
Other popular bands , most largely unknown outside Slovenia , include Negligence ( thrash metal ) , Elvis Jackson ( ska punk ) , Lačni Franz , Bohem , Puppetz ( Indie ) , Tabu , Društvo Mrtvih Pesnikov ( pop-rock ) , Naio Ssaion ( Gothic metal ) , Terrafolk , Leaf Fat ( screamo ) , Avven , Carpe Diem , Šank Rock , Big Foot Mama , Yogurt , Adam , Levitan , Dan D , Time to time , Flirrt , Zablujena generacija , Slon in Sadež , Katalena , Rock Partyzani , Shyam , Eroika , Hic et Nunc , Devil Doll ( experimental rock ) , Chateau , Posodi mi jürja , Rok 'n' band , Čuki , Juliette Justine , Zaklonišče Prepeva , Psycho-Path , Dekadent ( black metal ) and Buldožer ( progressive rock ) , and most recently Perpetuum Jazzile with more than 12 million views combined for the two a capella `` Africa '' performance videos since their publishing on YouTube in May 2009 until September 2011 , earning them kudos from the song 's co-writer , David Paich .
Milko Bambič is known for the first Slovene comic strip Little Negro Bu-ci-bu , an allegory of Mussolini 's career , and as the creator of the Three Hearts brand , still used today by Radenska .
In the romantic comedy film Working Girl , Katharine Parker ( Sigourney Weaver ) was depicted as skiing on the RC ELAN model skis and poles .
Espressionist painters include Veno Pilon and Tone Kralj whose picture book , reprinted thirteen times , is now the most recognisable image of the folk hero Martin Krpan .
Since the major international success of the national football team , qualifying for two FIFA World Cups and one UEFA European Football Championship , football has become increasingly popular , as well .
Between 1945 and 1990 , Slovenia was under Yugoslav Communist regime .
After Samo 's death , the Slavs of Carniola ( in present-day Slovenia ) again fell to Avar rule , while the Slavs north of the Karavanke range ( in present-day Austrian regions of Carinthia , Styria and East Tyrol ) established the independent principality of Carantania .
Carantania retained History of Slovenia internal independence until 828 when the local princes , following the anti-Frankish rebellion of Ljudevit Posavski , were deposed and gradually replaced by a Germanic ( primarily Bavarian ) ascendancy .
Carantania-Carinthia was established again as an autonomous administrative unit in 976 , when Emperor Otto I , `` the Great '' , after deposing the Duke of Bavaria , Henry II , `` the Quarreller '' , split the lands held by him and made Carinthia the sixth duchy of the Holy Roman Empire , but old Carantania never developed into a unified realm .
During this period , the first books in the Slovene language were written by the Protestant preacher Primož Trubar and his followers , establishing the base for the development of the standard Slovene language .
The old Slovene orthography , also known as Bohorič 's Alphabet , which was developed by the Protestants in the 16th century and remained in use until mid-19th century , testified to the unbroken tradition of Slovene culture as established in the years of the Protestant Reformation .
Between the 15th and the 17th century , the Slovene Lands suffered many calamities .
In the 16th and 17th century , the western Slovene regions became the battlefield of the wars between the Habsburg Monarchy and the Venetian Republic , most notably the War of Gradisca , which was largely fought in the Slovene Goriška region .
Between early 18th century and early 19th century , the Slovene lands experienced a period of peace , with a moderate economic recovery starting from mid-18th century onward .
Between 1805 and 1813 , the Slovene-settled territory was part of the Illyrian Provinces , an autonomous province of the Napoleonic French Empire , the capital of which was established at Ljubljana .
Pan-Slavic and Austro-Slavic ideas also gained importance .
However , the intellectual circle around the philologist Matija Čop and the Romantic poet France Prešeren was influential in affirming the idea of Slovene linguistic and cultural individuality , refusing the idea of merging the Slovenes into a wider Slavic nation .
In 1848 , a mass political and popular movement for the United Slovenia emerged as part of the Spring of Nations movement within the Austrian Empire .
Between 1848 and 1918 , numerous institutions ( including theatres and publishing houses , as well as political , financial and cultural organisations ) were founded in the so-called Slovene National Awakening .
By the end of the 19th century , Slovenes had established a standardized literary language , and a thriving civil society .
At the turn of the 20th century , national struggles in ethnically mixed areas ( especially in Carinthia , Trieste and in Lower Styrian towns ) dominated the political and social lives of the citizenry .
History of Slovenia has been calculated that around 300,000 Slovenes emigrated between 1880 and 1910 , which means that one in six Slovenes left their homeland .
Comparatively to other Central European regions , the Slovene Lands lost demographic weight between the late 18th and early 20th century .
Many Slovene political activists , especially in Carniola and Styria , were imprisoned by Austro-Hungarian authorities on charges of pro-Serbian or pan-Slavic sympathies .
Following the dissolution of Austro-Hungarian Empire in the aftermath of the World War I , a National Council of Slovenes , Croats and Serbs took power in Zagreb on 6 October 1918 .
In November 1918 , Rudolf Maister seized the city of Maribor and surrounding areas of Lower Styria in the name of the newly formed Yugoslav state .
Fighting in Carinthia lasted between December 1918 and June 1919 , when the Slovene volunteers and the regular Serbian Army managed to occupy the city of Klagenfurt .
In October 1920 , the majority of the population of southern Carinthia voted to remain in Austria , and only a small portion of the province ( around Dravograd and Guštanj ) was awarded to the Kingdom of Serbs , Croats and Slovenes .
Slovenes whose territory fell under the rule of neighboring states Italy , Austria and Hungary , were subjected to policies of forced assimilation and in case of Fascist Italy forced Fascist Italianization .
During the period of occupation between years 1918 and 1920 , all Slovene cultural associations ( Sokol , `` reading rooms '' etc. ) had been forbidden Fascist Italy brought Italian teachers from South Italy to Italianize ethnic Slovene and Croatian children , while the Slovene and Croatian teachers , poets , writers , artists and clergy were exiled to Sardinia and elsewhere to South Italy .
The two largest Slovenian cities , Ljubljana and Maribor , underwent an extensive program of urban renewal and modernization .
Between 1949 and 1953 , a forced collectivization was attempted .
A decade of industrialisation was accompanied also by a fervent cultural and literary production with many tensions between the regime and the dissident intellectuals .
Among the most important critical public intellectuals in this period were the sociologist Jože Pučnik , the poet Edvard Kocbek , and the literary historian Dušan Pirjevec .
By the mid-1980s , a reformist fraction , led by Milan Kučan , took control of the Slovenian Communist Party , starting a gradual reform towards a market socialism and controlled political pluralism .
In 1987 and 1988 , a series of clashes between the emerging civil society and the Communist regime culminated with the Slovenian Spring .
At the same time , the confrontation between the Slovenian Communists and the Serbian Communist Party , dominated by the charismatic nationalist leader Slobodan Milošević , became the most important political struggle in Yugoslavia .
The poor economic performance of the Federation , and rising clashes between the different republics , created a fertile soil for the rise of secessionist ideas among Slovenes , both anti-Communists and Communists .
Drnovšek 's governments reoriented Slovenia 's trade away from Yugoslavia towards the West and contrary to some other former Communist countries in Eastern Europe , the economic and social transformation followed a gradualist approach .
The term `` Karst '' originated in southwestern Slovenia 's Karst Plateau , a limestone region of underground rivers , gorges , and caves , between Ljubljana and the Mediterranean .
Southeastern or Central Europe , Eastern Alps bordering the Adriatic Sea , between Austria and Croatia .
White Carniola ( Bela krajina ) , otherwise part of Lower Carniola , is usually considered a separate region , as is the Central Sava Valley ( Zasavje ) , which is otherwise a part of Upper and Lower Carniola and Styria .
Lignite coal , lead , zinc , building stone , hydropower , forests The Sava River polluted with domestic and industrial waste ; pollution of coastal waters with heavy metals and toxic chemicals ; forest damage near Koper from air pollution ( originating at metallurgical and chemical plants ) and resulting acid rain .
In 2007 , Demographics of Slovenia was 74.6 years for men and 81.8 years for women .
According to data from 2008 , there were around 100,000 non-EU citizens living in Slovenia , or around 5 % of the overall population of the country .
The distribution of the residents of Slovenia by religion is the following : Roman Catholic 57.8 % , atheist 10.1 % , Muslim 2.4 % , Orthodox Christian 2.3 % , Protestant 0.9 % , other and unknown 26.5 % ( 2002 The majority of Slovenians ( 57 % ) are Roman Catholic , though the country also has a small number of Protestants , Orthodox Christians , Muslims , and Jews .
Politics of Slovenia takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic , whereby the Prime Minister of Slovenia is the head of government , and of a multi-party system .
The National Assembly ( Državni zbor ) has 90 members , elected for a four-year term , 88 members elected by proportional representation using D'Hondt formula and 2 members elected by ethnic minorities using the Borda count .
Between 1998 and 2003 , the organic sector grew from less than 0.1 % of Slovenian agriculture to roughly the European Union average of 3.3 % .
The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia ( SURS ) reported it to be ( not counting state-guaranteed loans ) 19.5 billion euros or 54.2 % of GDP at the end of September 2010 .
The location at the junction of the Mediterranean , the Alps , the Dinarides and the Pannonian Plain and the area being traversed by major rivers have been the reasons for the intersection of the main transport routes in Slovenia .
The Slovenian Railways company operates 1229 km of standard gauge tracks , 331 km as double track , and reaches all regions of the country .
The Pan-European railway corridors V and X , and several E-railways ( E65 , E67 , E69 , and E70 ) intersect in Slovenia .
On 28 January 2010 , after short-term vignettas were introduced by Slovenia and some other changes were made to the Slovenian vignette system , the European Commission concluded that the vignette system is in accordance with the European law .
After a short fight with German Austrian provisional units , the current border was established , which mostly followed the ethnic-linguistic division between Slovenes and ethnic Germans in Styria .
When Slovenia declared independence at the onset of the Yugoslav Wars in 1991 , the Slovenian Territorial Defence and the Slovenian police comprised the majority of forces engaging the Yugoslav People 's Army during the Ten-Day War .
Currently there are approximately 7,400 active troops and approximately 1,700 in reserve , reduced from 55,000 personnel during conscription .
Slovenia hosted Military of Slovenia first PfP exercise in 1998 -- `` Cooperative Adventure Exchange '' -- a multinational disaster-preparedness command post exercise involving almost 6,000 troops from 19 NATO and PfP member nations .
Military of Slovenia ( includes Air and Naval Forces ) 19 years of age males age 15-49 : 525,031 ( 2000 est. ) males age 15-49 : 417,726 ( 2000 est. ) males : 14,958 ( 2000 est. ) $ 335 million ( FY99 ) 1.6 % ( FY99 ) .
In the 1990s , foreign relations , especially with Italy , Austria and Croatia , triggered internal political controversies .
Prior and during the Kosovo War of 1999 , Slovenian top government officials called repeatedly for Slobodan Milošević 's compliance with NATO demands .
The Slovene Government allocated 45 million SIT ( US$ 250,000 ) to help Albania , Montenegro , and the Republic of Macedonia , one-third of which went to the latter .
Succession issues , particularly concerning liabilities and assets of the former Yugoslavia , remain a key factor in Slovenia 's relations in the region .
Regional cooperation , especially with the states of Carinthia and Styria , is well developed : as a concrete manifestation of the excellent state of regional relations , Slovenia , Austria , and Italy entered a joint bid to organize the 2006 and 2010 Winter Olympic Games .
In a series of high-level meetings since the latter half of 1998 , Slovenia and Croatia have been engaged in settling bilateral differences , a process which accelerated after the death of Croatian President Franjo Tuđman in 1999 .
In 1595 and 1605 Spain again sent several expeditions to find the islands and establish a colony , however these were unsuccessful .
Islanders Biuku Gasa ( deceased 2005 ) and Eroni Kumana ( Gizo ) were Allies scouts during the war .
The first national election was held in 1964 for the seat of Honiara , and by 1967 the first general election was held for all but one of the 15 representative seats on the Legislative Council ( the one exception was the seat for the Eastern Outer Islands , which was again appointed by electoral college ) .
The aim of this system was to reduce divisions between elected representatives and the colonial bureaucracy , provide opportunities for training new representatives in managing the responsibilities of government .
In early 1999 long-simmering tensions between the local Gwale people on Guadalcanal and more recent migrants from the neighbouring island of Malaita erupted into violence .
Through their spokesman Andrew Nori , History of the Solomon Islands claimed that the government of the then Prime Minister , Bartholomew Ulufa'alu , had failed to secure compensation for loss of Malaitan life and property .
The security forces were unable to reassert control , largely because many police and security personnel are associated with one or another of the rival gangs .
On 6 July 2003 , in response to a proposal to send 300 police and 2,000 troops from Australia , New Zealand , Fiji and Papua New Guinea to Guadalcanal , warlord Harold Keke announced a ceasefire by faxing a signed copy of the announcement to the Solomons Prime Minister , Allan Kemakeza .
In August 2003 , an international peacekeeping force , known as the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands ( RAMSI ) and Operation Helpem Fren , entered the islands .
Sixty percent live in localities with fewer than 200 persons , and only 10 % reside in urban areas .
Politics of the Solomon Islands takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic monarchy within the Commonwealth , whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government , and of a multi-party system .
Politics of the Solomon Islands are subject to frequent votes of no confidence , and government leadership changes frequently as a result .
Kemakeza , attempted to address the deteriorating law and order situation in the country , but the prevailing atmosphere of lawlessness , widespread extortion , and ineffective police , prompted a formal request by the Solomon Islands Government for outside help .
earth stations based in Honiara and Gizo - Intelsat ( Pacific Ocean ) .
Somalia is bordered by Ethiopia to the west , Djibouti to the northwest , the Gulf of Aden to the north , the Indian Ocean to the east , and Kenya to the southwest .
Somali and Arabic are the official languages of Somalia , both of which belong to the Afro-Asiatic family .
A few autonomous regions , including the Somaliland , Puntland and Galmudug administrations , emerged in the north in the ensuing process of decentralization .
The ICU subsequently splintered into more radical groups such as Al-Shabaab , which battled the TFG and Somalia AMISOM allies for control of the region , with the insurgents losing most of the territory that Somalia had seized by mid-2012 .
The stone implements from the Jalelo site in northern Somalia were characterized in 1909 as `` the most important link in evidence of the universality in palaeolithic times between the East and the West '' .
Ancient pyramidal structures , tombs , ruined cities and stone walls found in Somalia , such as the Wargaade Wall , are evidence of an ancient sophisticated civilization that once thrived in the Somali peninsula .
After the Roman conquest of the Nabataean Empire and the Roman naval presence at Aden to curb piracy , Arab and Somali merchants by agreement barred Indian ships from trading in the free port cities of the Arabian peninsula to protect the interests of Somali and Arab merchants in the extremely lucrative ancient Red Sea -- Mediterranean Sea commerce .
From this new capital , Adal organised an effective army led by Imam Ahmad ibn Ibrihim al-Ghazi ( Ahmad `` Gurey '' or `` Gran '' ) that invaded the Abyssinian empire .
Vasco da Gama , who passed by Mogadishu in the 15th century , noted that it was a large city with houses several storeys high and large palaces in Somalia centre , in addition to many mosques with cylindrical minarets .
Hindu merchants from Surat and Southeast African merchants from Pate , seeking to bypass both the Portuguese blockade and Omani interference , used the Somali ports of Merca and Barawa ( which were out of the two powers ' jurisdiction ) to conduct their trade in safety and without interference .
The invasion was condemned by the League of Nations , but little was done to stop Somalia or to liberate occupied Ethiopia .
A British force , including troops from several African countries , launched the campaign in January 1941 from Kenya to liberate British Somaliland and Italian-occupied Ethiopia and conquer Italian Somaliland .
The disparity between the two territories in economic development and political experience would cause serious difficulties when Somalia came time to integrate the two parts .
Meanwhile , in 1948 , under pressure from their World War II allies and to the dismay of the Somalis , the British `` returned '' the Haud ( an important Somali grazing area that was presumably ` protected ' by British treaties with the Somalis in 1884 and 1886 ) and the Ogaden to Ethiopia , based on a treaty they signed in 1897 in which the British ceded Somali territory to the Ethiopian Emperor Menelik in exchange for his help against plundering by Somali clans .
British Somaliland became independent on 26 June 1960 as the State of Somaliland , and the Trust Territory of Somalia ( the former Italian Somaliland ) followed suit five days later .
Alongside Barre , the Supreme Revolutionary Council ( SRC ) that assumed power after President Sharmarke 's assassination was led by Lieutenant Colonel Salaad Gabeyre Kediye and Chief of Police Jama Korshel .
The regime was weakened further in the 1980s as the Cold War drew to a close and Somalia strategic importance was diminished .
The government became increasingly totalitarian , and resistance movements , encouraged by Ethiopia , sprang up across Somalia , eventually leading to the Somali Civil War .
The Transitional Federal Government sought to reestablish Somalia authority , and , with the assistance of Ethiopian troops , African Union peacekeepers and air support by the United States , managed to drive out the rival ICU and solidify Somalia rule .
On 8 January 2007 , as the Battle of Ras Kamboni raged , TFG President and founder Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed , a former colonel in the Somali Army and decorated war hero , entered Mogadishu for the first time since being elected to office .
Some of the more radical elements , including Al-Shabaab , regrouped to continue their insurgency against the TFG and oppose the Ethiopian military 's presence in Somalia .
Furthermore , Al-Shabaab and Hizbul Islam , the two main Islamist groups in opposition , began to fight amongst themselves in mid-2009 .
In mid-2010 , the Institute for Economics and Peace also ranked Somalia in the next-to-last position , in between war-afflicted Iraq and Afghanistan , on its Global Peace Index .
During the same period , the UN International Monitoring Group ( IMG ) published a report claiming that the Somali government 's security forces were ineffective and corrupt , and that up to half of the food aid that was destined for the conflict-stricken parts of Somalia was being misdirected .
Somalia government and local businessmen , as well as United Nations officials and the Eritrean government all emphatically rejected the report 's claims .
This was followed in November of that year with a $ 2 million agreement between the government and the African Development Bank ( AfDB ) , which saw Somalia re-engage with the AfDB after nearly two decades of interruption .
Similarly , the autonomous Puntland region 's new administration , which took office in early 2009 , has also implemented numerous reforms such as the expansion and improvement of Somalia security and judicial sectors .
In addition , a new regional constitution was drafted and later passed on 15 June 2009 , which is believed to represent a significant step toward the eventual introduction of a multi-party political system to the region for the first time ; such a system already exists in the adjacent Somaliland region .
Somalia also assures the independence of the judiciary , which in turn is protected by a judicial committee ; b ) a three-tier judicial system including a supreme court , a court of appeals , and courts of first instance the laws of the civilian government which were in effect prior to the military coup d'état that saw the Barre regime into power remain in force until the laws are amended .
This changed after the start of the civil war , when a number of new shari'a courts began to spring up in many different cities and towns across Somalia .
The shari'a courts , though structured along simple lines , feature a conventional hierarchy of a chairman , vice-chairman and four judges .
Xeer is defined by a few fundamental tenets that are immutable and which closely approximate the principle of jus cogens in international law : These precepts include : Somalia is officially divided into eighteen regions ( gobollada , singular gobol ) , which in turn are subdivided into districts .
Somalia land boundaries extend to about 2340 km ; 58 km of that is shared with Djibouti , 682 km with Kenya , and 1626 km with Ethiopia .
In the central regions , Somalia northern mountain ranges give way to shallow plateaus and typically dry watercourses that are referred to locally as the Ogo .
Somalia has only two permanent rivers , the Jubba and the Shabele , both of which begin in the Ethiopian Highlands .
As a way of addressing this problem , Jibrell and the Horn of Africa Relief and Development Organization ( Horn Relief ) , an organization of which she is a co-founder and Executive Director , trained a group of adolescents to educate the public on the permanent damage that producing charcoal can create .
As a result of Jibrell 's lobbying and education efforts , the Puntland government in 2000 prohibited the exportation of charcoal .
The tangambili periods that intervene between the two monsoons ( October -- November and March -- May ) are hot and humid .
Examples of this and other educational measures at work are the regional government 's enactment of legislation aimed at securing the educational interests of girls , promoting the growth of an Early Childhood Development ( ECD ) program designed to reach parents and care-givers in their homes as well as in the ECD centers for 0 -- 5 year old children , and introducing incentive packages to encourage teachers to work in remote rural areas .
The highest class enrollment was observed in the northernmost Bari region , and the lowest was observed in the under-populated Ayn region .
To address shortcomings in religious instruction , the Somali government on Somalia own part also subsequently established the Ministry of Endowment and Islamic Affairs , under which Qur ` anic education is now regulated .
According to the central bank : `` This inflationary environment , however , is expected to come to an end as soon as the Central Bank assumes full control of monetary policy and replaces the presently circulating currency introduced by the private sector '' .
Although Somalia has had no central monetary authority for more than 15 years between the outbreak of the civil war in 1991 and the subsequent re-establishment of the Central Bank of Somalia in 2009 , Somalia payment system is fairly advanced primarily due to the widespread existence of private money transfer operators ( MTO ) that have acted as informal banking networks .
American , Australian and Chinese oil companies , in particular , are excited about the prospect of finding petroleum and other natural resources in Somalia .
The Australian oil firm , for Somalia part , indicated that Somalia looked forward to establishing a mutually beneficial and profitable working relationship with the region 's new government .
Prior to the outbreak of the civil war in 1991 and the subsequent disintegration of the Armed Forces , Somalia friendship with the Soviet Union and later partnership with the United States enabled it to build the largest army in Africa .
Northern Somali ( or Northern-Central Somali ) forms the basis for Standard Somali .
Besides Ahmed 's Latin script , other orthographies that have been used for centuries for writing Somali include the long-established Arabic script and Wadaad 's writing .
Sufism , the mystical dimension of Islam , is also well-established , with many local jama'a ( zawiya ) or congregations of the various tariiqa or Sufi orders .
Xalwo ( halva ) is a popular confection reserved for special occasions , such as Eid celebrations or wedding receptions .
Many of the new architectural designs , such as mosques , were built on the ruins of older structures , a practice that would continue over and over again throughout the following centuries .
The stone implements from the Jalelo site in northern Somalia are said to be the most important link in evidence of the universality in palaeolithic times between the East and the West .
Ancient pyramidical structures , tombs , ruined cities and stone walls found in History of Somalia , such as the Wargaade Wall , are evidence of an ancient sophisticated civilization that once thrived in the Somali peninsula .
The findings of archaeological excavations and research in History of Somalia show that this ancient civilization had had an ancient writing system that remains undeciphered and enjoyed a lucrative trading relationship with Ancient Egypt and Mycenaean Greece since at least the second millennium BC , which supports the view of History of Somalia being the ancient Kingdom of Punt .
After the Roman conquest of the Nabataean Empire and the Roman naval presence at Aden to curb piracy , Arab merchants barred Indian merchants from trading in the free port cities of the Arabian Peninsula because of the nearby Roman presence .
The century between 1150 and 1250 marked a decisive turn in the role of Islam in Somali history .
In 1403 or 1415 ( under Emperor Dawit I or Emperor Yeshaq I , respectively ) measures were taken against the Muslim Sultanate of Adal .
Many similar battles were fought between the Adalites and the Solomonids with both sides achieving victory and suffering defeat but ultimately Sultan Sabr ad-Din II successfully managed to drive the Solomonic army out of Adal territory .
Later on in the campaign , the Adalites were struck by a catastrophe when Sultan Mansur and his brother Muhammad were captured in battle by the Solomonids .
As a result , Yeshaq was forced to withdraw towards the Blue Nile over the next five months , while Jamal ad Din 's forces pursued them and looted much gold on the way , although no engagement ensued .
Within a few years , however , Jamal was assassinated by either disloyal friends or cousins around 1432 or 1433 , and was succeeded by his brother Badlay ibn Sa'ad ad-Din .
He soon acquired weapons from Ottoman Empire , Sudan , and other Islamic and/or Arabian countries , and appointed ministers and advisers to administer different areas or sectors of History of Somalia .
History of Somalia jurisdiction stretched from Ceeldheer ( El Dher ) through to Dhusamareb in the south-west , from Galladi to Galkayo in the west , from Jariban to Garaad in the north-east , and the Indian Ocean in the east .
Nevertheless , soon suspicions were aroused as Trivulzio , the Hobyo commissioner , reported movement of armed men towards the borders of the sultanate before the takeover and after .
While a third attempt was in the last stages of preparation , the operation commander , Lieutenant-Colonel Splendorelli , was ambushed between Bud Bud and Buula Barde .
As a consequence of the death of the commander of the operations and the effect of two failed operations intended to overcome the El Buur mutiny , the spirit of Italian troops began to wane .
To undermine the resistance , however , and before the Eritrean reinforcement could arrive , De Vecchi began to instill distrust among the local people by buying the loyalty of some of them .
In early October 1924 , E. Coronaro , the new Alula commissioner , presented Boqor ( king ) Osman Mahamuud with an ultimatum to disarm and surrender .
By this time , the balance had tilted to the Italians ' side , and in January 1927 they began to attack with a massive force , capturing Iskushuban , at the heart of the Majeerteen .
The Italians made many new investments in infrastructure in the region , such as the Strada Imperiale ( `` imperial road '' ) between Addis Ababa and Mogadishu .
During World War II , these troops were regarded as a wing of the Italian Army 's Infantry Division , as was the case in Libya and Eritrea .
The disparity between the two territories in economic development and political experience would cause serious difficulties when History of Somalia came time to integrate the two parts .
Meanwhile , in 1948 , under pressure from History of Somalia World War II allies and to the dismay of the Somalis , the British `` returned '' the Haud ( an important Somali grazing area that was presumably ` protected ' by British treaties with the Somalis in 1884 and 1886 ) and the Ogaden to Ethiopia , based on a treaty they signed in 1897 in which the British ceded Somali territory to the Ethiopian Emperor Menelik in exchange for his help against plundering by Somali clans .
British Somaliland became independent on June 26 , 1960 as the State of Somaliland , and the Trust Territory of Somalia ( the former Italian Somaliland ) followed suit five days later .
On July 20 , 1961 and through a popular referendum , the people of History of Somalia ratified a new constitution , which was first drafted in 1960 .
The regime was weakened further in the 1980s as the Cold War drew to a close and Somalia 's strategic importance was diminished .
The government became increasingly totalitarian , and resistance movements , encouraged by Ethiopia , sprang up across History of Somalia , eventually leading to the Somali Civil War .
Consequently , several gun battles took place in Mogadishu between local gunmen and peacekeepers .
History of Somalia also assures the independence of the judiciary , which in turn is protected by a judicial committee ; b ) a three-tier judicial system including a supreme court , a court of appeals , and courts of first instance the laws of the civilian government which were in effect prior to the military coup d'état that saw the Barre regime into power remain in force until the laws are amended .
This changed after the start of the civil war , when a number of new shari'a courts began to spring up in many different cities and towns across History of Somalia .
The Transitional Federal Government sought to reestablish History of Somalia authority , and , with the assistance of Ethiopian troops , African Union peacekeepers and air support by the United States , managed to drive out the rival ICU and solidify History of Somalia rule .
Some of the more radical elements , including Al-Shabaab , regrouped to continue their insurgency against the TFG and oppose the Ethiopian military 's presence in History of Somalia .
Many cultural phenomena that are seen internationally as distinctively Spanish are largely or entirely Andalusian in origin .
An inscription below , superimposed on an image of the flag of Andalusia reads Andalusia por sí , para España y la Humanidad ( `` Andalusia by herself , for Spain and Humanity '' ) .
The official flag of Andalusia consists of three equal horizontal stripes , colored green , white , and green respectively ; the Andalusian coat of arms is superimposed on the central stripe .
The white symbolized pardon in the Almohad dynasty , interpreted in European heraldry as parliament or peace .
The honorific title of Hijo Predilecto de Andalusia ( `` Favorite Son of Andalusia '' ) is granted by the Junta of Andalusia to those whose exceptional merits benefited Andalusia , for work or achievements in natural , social , or political science .
Andalusia sits at a latitude between 36 ° and 38 ° 44 ' N , in Andalusia .
The mountains of Granada and Jaén have the coldest temperatures in southern Iberia , but do not reach continental extremes ( and , indeed are surpassed by some mountains in northern Spain ) .
In the cold snap of January 2005 , Santiago de la Espada ( Jaén ) experienced a temperature of -21 ° C and the ski resort at Sierra Nevada National Park -- the southernmost ski resort in Europe -- dropped to -18 ° C .
Mountain ranges affect climate , the network of rivers , soils and their erosion , bioregions , and even human economies insofar as Andalusia rely on natural resources .
Although sparsely populated , this is not a particularly high range , and Andalusia highest point , the 1323 m peak of La Bañuela in the Sierra Madrona , lies outside of Andalusia .
Within the Sierra Morena , the gorge of Despeñaperros forms a natural frontier between Castile and Andalusia .
The Sierra Nevada , part of the Cordillera Penibética in the Province of Granada , has the highest peaks in Iberia : El Mulhacén at 3478 m and El Veleta at 3392 m .
In the woodlands , leafy hardwoods of genus Populus ( poplars , aspens , cottonwoods ) and Ulmus ( elms ) are also abundant ; poplars are cultivated in the plains of Granada .
Birds of prey ( raptors ) include the Spanish Imperial Eagle ( also known as Adalbert 's Eagle , Aquila adalberti , the Griffon Vulture ( Gyps fulvus ) , and both the Black and Red Kite ( Milvus migrans and Milvus milvus ) .
Among the herbivores , are several deer ( Cervidae ) species , notably the Fallow Deer ( Dama dama ) and Roe Deer ( Capreolus capreolus ) ; the European Mouflon ( Ovis orientalis musimon ) , a type of sheep ; and the Spanish Ibex ( Capra pyrenaica , which despite Andalusia scientific name is no longer found in the Pyrenees ) .
The geostrategic position of Andalusia in the extreme south of Europe , providing ( along with Morocco ) a gateway between Europe and Africa , added to its position between the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea , as well as its rich deposits of minerals and its agricultural wealth , have made Andalusia a tempting prize for civilizations since prehistoric times .
Between the First and Second Punic Wars , Carthage extended Andalusia control beyond Andalucia to include all of Iberia except the Basque Country .
The Umayyad Caliphate produced such leaders as Caliph Abd-ar-Rahman III ( ruled 912 -- 961 ) and his son , Caliph Al-Hakam II ( ruled 961 -- 976 ) ; and built the magnificent Great Mosque of Córdoba .
The weakness caused by the collapse of Almohad power and the subsequent creation of new Taifas , each with Andalusia own ruler , and led to the rapid Christian reconquest of the valley of the Guadalquivir .
According to George C. Kohn , `` One of the worst epidemics of the century , whose miseries were accompanied by severe drought and food shortage , started in 1505 ; by 1507 , about 100,000 people had died in Andalusia alone ... Andalusia was struck once again in 1646 .
Following the Second Rebellion of the Alpujarras in 1568-1571 , the Moorish population -- that is , unconverted Moriscos -- were expelled from Kingdom of Castile ( and Aragon ) .
The Andalusian Autonomous Government ( Spanish : Junta de Andalucía ) includes the Parliament of Andalusia , Andalusia chosen president , a Consultative Council , and other bodies .
Within the government , the President is the supreme representative of Andalusia , and the ordinary representative of the Spanish state in Andalusia .
The population is concentrated , above all , in the provincial capitals and along the coasts , so that the level of urbanization is quite high ; half the population is concentrated in the 28 cities of more than 50,000 inhabitants .
At the beginning of the 21st century , the population structure of Andalusia shows a clear inversion of the population pyramid , with the largest cohorts falling between ages 25 and 50 .
Comparison of the population pyramid in 2008 to that in 1986 shows : As far as composition by sex , two aspects stand out : the higher percentage of women in the elderly population , owing to women 's longer life expectancy , and , on the other hand , the higher percentage of men of working age , due in large part to a predominantly male immigrant population .
The most important tree crops are olives , especially in the Subbetic regions of the provinces of Córdoba and Jáen , where irrigated olive orchards constitute a large component of agricultural output .
Fruits -- mainly citrus fruits -- are grown near the banks of the Guadalquivir ; almonds , which require far less water , are grown on the high plains of Granada and Alemería .
`` Extensive '' raising of livestock grazes the animals on natural or cultivated pastures , whereas `` intensive '' raising of livestock is based in fodder rather than pasture .
While intensive techniques now dominate in Europe and even in other regions of Spain , most of Andalusia 's cattle , virtually all of Andalusia sheep and goats , and a good portion of Andalusia pigs are raised by extensive farming in mountain pastures .
Andalusia native sheep and goats present a great economic opportunity in a Europe where animal products are generally in strong supply , but the sheep and goat meat , milk , and leather ( and the products derived from these ) are relatively scarce .
The Andalusian fishing fleet is Spain 's second largest , after Galicia , and Andalusia 38 fishing ports are the most of any Spanish autonomous community .
In the province of Huelva Andalusia constitutes 20 percent of the primary sector , and locally in Punta Umbría 70 percent of the work force is involved in commercial fishing .
In addition , limestone , clay , and other materials used in construction are well distributed throughout Andalusia .
Due in part to the relatively mild winter and spring climate , the south of Spain is attractive to overseas visitors -- especially tourists from Northern Europe .
70 percent of the lodging capacity and 75 percent of the nights booked in Andalusian hotels are in coastal municipalities .
Nonetheless , the level of tourism on the Andalusian coasts has been high enough to have a significant environmental impact , and other organizations -- such as the Spanish Ecologists in Action ( Ecologistas en Acción ) with their description of `` Black Flag beaches '' or Greenpeace -- have expressed the opposite sentiment .
There are also archeological sites of great interest : the Roman city of Italica , birthplace of Emperor Trajan and ( most likely ) Hadrian ; Baelo Claudia near the Straits of Gibraltar ; Medina Azahara , the city-palace of the Cordoban caliph Abd-ar-Rahman III , where major excavations still continue .
Other principal routes are the one from Algeciras to Seville and from Almería via Granada to Madrid .
The Seville Airport handles another 20.12 percent of traffic , and the Jerez Airport 7.17 percent , so that these three airports account for 87.96 percent of traffic .
The Andalusian Energy Agency established in 2005 by the autonomous government , is a new governmental organ charged with the development of energy policy and provision of a sufficient supply of energy for Andalusia .
Smaller solar power stations , also recent , exist at Cúllar and Galera , Granada , inaugurated by Geosol and Caja Granada .
Within the private sphere , although also promoted by public administration , technology parks have been established throughout the Community , such as the Technological Park of Andalusia ( Parque Tecnológico de Andalusia ) in Campanillas on the outskirts of Málaga , and Cartuja 93 in Seville .
The national press ( El País , El Mundo , ABC , etc. ) include sections or editions specific to Andalusia .
One of the most characteristic elements wrought iron gratings , and the tiles known as azulejos .
Some of the greatest Renaissance buildings in Andalusia are from the then-kingdom of Jaén : the Jaén Cathedral , designed in part by Andrés de Vandelvira , served as a model for the Cathedral of Malaga and Guadix ; the centers of Úbeda and Baeza , dating largely from this era , are UNESCO World Heritage Sites .
Seville and its kingdom also figured prominently in this era , as is shown by the Casa consistorial de Sevilla , the Hospital de las Cinco Llagas or the Charterhouse of Jerez de la Frontera .
A specific romantic genre known as costumbrismo andaluz depicts traditional and folkloric Andalusian subjects , such as bull fighting scenes , dogs , and scenes from Andalusia history .
The influence of the traditional music and dance of the Romani people or Gypsies is particularly clear .
In Jaen , the saeta is a revered form of Spanish religious song , whose form and style has evolved over many centuries .
Verdiales , based upon the fandango , are a flamenco music style and song form originating in Almogia , near Málaga .
Sevillanas , a type of old folk music sung and written in Seville and still very popular , are performed in fairs and festivals , along with an associated dance for the music , the Baile por sevillanas .
All the different regions of Andalusia have developed their own distinctive customs , but all share a connectedness to Catholicism and Andalusia Muslim cultural past .
Andalusia remains a center of bull-rearing and bullfighting : Andalusia 227 fincas de ganado where fighting bulls are raised cover 146917 ha .
Atlantic bluefin tuna ( Thunnus thynnus ) from the Almadraba areas of the Gulf of Cádiz , prawns from Sanlúcar de Barrameda ( known as langostino de Sanlúcar ) , and Deepwater Rose Shrimp ( Parapenaeus longirostris ) from Huelva are all highly prized .
Cereal-based dishes include migas de harina in Andalusia ( a similar dish to couscous rather than the fried breadcrumb based migas elsewhere in Spain ) and a sweeter , more aromatic porridge called poleá in western Andalusia .
These are enormously varied ; for example , dry sherry may be the very distinct fino , manzanilla , amontillado , oloroso , or Palo Cortado and each of these varieties can each be sweetened with Pedro Ximénez or Moscatel to produce a different variety of sweet sherry .
220 Andalusian athletes have competed in a total of 16 summer or winter Olympic Games .
Andalusia hosted the 1999 World Championships in Athletics ( Seville ) , the 2005 Mediterranean Games ( Almería ) and the FIS Alpine World Ski Championships 1996 ( Granada ) , among other major events .
Andalusia is one of the sunniest and warmest places in Europe .
Prior to the outbreak of the civil war in 1991 , the roughly 53 state-owned small , medium and large manufacturing firms were foundering , with the ensuing conflict destroying many of the remaining industries .
The latter include fish-canning and meat-processing plants in the north , as well as about 25 factories in the Mogadishu area , which manufacture pasta , mineral water , confections , plastic bags , fabric , hides and skins , detergent and soap , aluminum , foam mattresses and pillows , fishing boats , carry out packaging , and stone processing .
Due to the entrepreneurial spirit of the Somali people and a lack of strict regulatory frameworks , by 1997 , up to 14 private airline firms operating 62 aircraft were offering commercial flights to international locations .
There are presently around 25 mainlines per 1,000 persons , and the local availability of telephone lines ( tele-density ) is higher than in neighboring countries ; three times greater than in adjacent Ethiopia .
As of 2005 , there were also 20 privately owned Somali newspapers , 12 radio and television stations , and numerous internet sites offering information to the public .
This inflationary environment , however , is expected to come to an end as soon as the Central Bank assumes full control of monetary policy and replaces the presently circulating currency introduced by the private sector .
Although Somalia has had no central monetary authority for upwards of 15 years between the outbreak of the civil war in 1991 and the subsequent re-establishment of the Central Bank of Somalia in 2009 , the nation 's payment system is actually fairly advanced due primarily to the widespread existence of private money transfer operators ( MTO ) that have acted as informal banking networks .
For amounts greater than $ 1000 , these companies charge commission fees of between 3 % -4 % , significantly lower than Western Union 's 7.1 % fee and MoneyGram 's 7.2 % fee for sending the same amount to Ethiopia .
American , Australian and Chinese oil companies , in particular , are excited about the prospect of finding petroleum and other natural resources in the country .
The Australian oil firm , for Economy of Somalia part , indicated that Economy of Somalia looked forward to establishing a mutually beneficial and profitable working relationship with the region 's new government .
Despite their rivalry , several of these companies signed an interconnectivity deal in 2005 that allows them to set prices , maintain and expand their networks , and ensure that competition does not get out of control .
The bill was passed following consultations between government representatives and communications , academic and civil society stakeholders .
According to the Ministry of Information , Posts and Telecommunications , the Act is expected to create an environment conducive to investment and the certainty Communications in Somalia provides will encourage further infrastructural development , resulting in more efficient service delivery .
In December 2012 , Minister of Information , Posts and Telecommunications , Abdullah Elmoge Hirsi , announced that Somalia 's new Federal Government plans to officially re-launch the Somali Postal Service in 2013 .
Other radio stations based in Mogadishu include HornAfrik , Mustaqbal Media corporation and the Shabelle Media Network , the latter of which was in 2010 awarded the Media of the Year prize by the Paris-based journalism organisation , Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) .
In total , about one short-wave and ten private FM radio stations broadcast from the capital , with several radio stations broadcasting from the central and southern regions .
In late 2010 , SKA Air and Logistics , a Dubai-based aviation firm that specializes in conflict zones , was contracted by the Somali government to manage operations over a period of ten years at the re-opened Aden Adde International Airport .
The Transitional Federal Government sought to reestablish Politics of Somalia authority , and , with the assistance of Ethiopian troops , African Union peacekeepers and air support by the United States , managed to drive out the rival ICU and solidify Politics of Somalia rule .
Between 31 May and 9 June 2008 , representatives of Somalia 's federal government and the moderate Alliance for the Re-liberation of Somalia ( ARS ) group of Islamist rebels participated in peace talks in Djibouti brokered by the former United Nations Special Envoy to Somalia , Ahmedou Ould-Abdallah .
During the same period , the UN International Monitoring Group ( IMG ) published a report claiming that the Somali government 's security forces were ineffective and corrupt , and that up to half of the food aid that was destined for the conflict-stricken parts of the country was being misdirected .
This was followed in November of that year with a $ 2 million agreement between Politics of Somalia and the African Development Bank ( AfDB ) , which saw Somalia re-engage with the AfDB after nearly two decades of interruption .
Similarly , the autonomous Puntland region 's new administration , which took office in early 2009 , has also implemented numerous reforms such as the expansion and improvement of Politics of Somalia security and judicial sectors .
Many historians trace the origins of hostility between Somalia and Ethiopia to this war .
At the turn of the 20th century , the Majeerteen Sultanate , Sultanate of Hobyo , Warsangali Sultanate and Dervish State employed cavalry in their battles against the imperialist European powers during the Campaign of the Sultanates .
In Italian Somaliland , eight `` Arab-Somali '' infantry battalions , the Ascari , and several irregular units of Italian officered dubats were established .
There were also Somali artillery and zaptié ( carabinieri ) units forming part of the Italian Royal Corps of Colonial Troops from 1889 to 1941 .
On 5 September 2006 , an agreement between the TFG and the Islamic Courts Union ( ICU ) to build a national military was reached `` in principle '' .
After the ICU 's defeat in December 2006 -- January 2007 , a separate pact was reached between the government and several faction leaders for the disarmament of the militias .
The National Security Agency ( NSA ) under General Mohamed Warsame ( `` Darwish '' ) and the so-called `` Majerteen militia '' units in the TFG army operate in parallel and often above other security agencies .
The IISS noted that these formations ` were in name only ; below establishment in units , men , and equipment .
Other armoured fighting vehicles included 10 M41 Walker Bulldog light tanks , 30 BRDM-2 and 15 Panhard AML-90 armored cars ( formerly owned by Saudi Arabia , said the SIPRI Arms Trade Register accessed in 2012 ) .
Military exercises between the United States and the Siad Barre regime continued during the 1980s .
Military of Somalia emerged from the Italian `` Corpo di Sicurezza della Somalia '' , which existed between 1950 and 1960 , during the trusteeship period just prior to independence .
Foreign relations of Somalia hosted the Arta conference in 2000 , as well as the 2008-2009 talks between the Transitional Federal Government and the Alliance for the Reliberation of Somalia , which led to the formation of a coalition government .
Relations between the peoples of Somalia and Ethiopia stretch back to antiquity , to a common origin .
During the Middle Ages , Imam Ahmad ibn Ibrihim al-Ghazi ( Ahmad Gurey or Gragn ) led a Conquest of Abyssinia ( Futuh al-Habash ) , which brought three-quarters of the Christian Ethiopian Empire under the power of the Muslim Adal Sultanate .
With an army mainly composed of Somalis , Many historians trace the origins of tensions between Somalia and Ethiopia to this war .
In October 2011 , a coordinated operation between the Somali military and the Kenyan military began against the Al-Shabaab group of insurgents in southern Somalia .
He also asserted that his administration would once again launch agricultural and technical projects in Somalia , as the South Korean authorities had done in the past .
The President of South Africa , serves both as head of state and as head of government - in the same manner as prime ministers of other nations , the President is elected by the National Assembly ( the lower house of the South African Parliament ) and must enjoy the confidence of the Assembly in order to remain in office .
The main challenger to the ANC 's rule is the Democratic Alliance , led by Helen Zille , which received 16.66 % of the vote in the 2009 election and 24.1 % of the popular vote in the 2011 election .
South Africa is a parliamentary representative democratic republic , wherein the President of South Africa , elected by parliament , is the head of government , and of a multi-party system .
General Constand Viljoen is a former chief of the South African Defence Force , who , as a leader of the Afrikaner Volksfront , sent 1500 of his militiamen to prop up the government of Lucas Mangope and to contest the termination of Bophuthatswana as a homeland in 1994 .
The unemployment rate is very high at over 25 % , and the poor have limited access to economic opportunities and basic services .
As the colony increased in size , with the arrival of French Huguenots and German citizens , some of the colonists were set free to pursue commercial farming , leading to the dominance of agriculture in the economy .
In April 2009 , amidst fears that South Africa would soon join much of the rest of the world in recession , Reserve Bank Governor Tito Mboweni and Finance Minister Trevor Manuel differed on the matter : whereas Manuel foresaw a quarter of economic growth , Mboweni predicted further decline : `` technically , '' he said , `` that 's a recession '' .
The estimated value of loss , which takes into consideration scenarios with and without the carbon dioxide fertilisation effect , ranges between tens and hundreds of millions of Rands .
According to FAOSTAT , Economy of South Africa is one of world 's largest producers of : chicory roots ( 4th ) ; grapefruit ( 4th ) ; cereals ( 5th ) ; green maize and maize ( 7th ) ; castor oil seed ( 9th ) ; pears ( 9th ) ; sisal ( 10th ) ; fibre crops ( 10th ) .
The most important agricultural imports , which accounted for over 60 % of agricultural import value during the same period , include : cereals , meat , soya-bean oil cake , beverages , soya-bean oil and Economy of South Africa fractions , tobacco , palm oil and Economy of South Africa fractions , miscellaneous food , spices , coffee , tea , and preserved food .
The food sub-sector is the largest employer within the agro-processing sector -- contributing 1.4 % to total employment , and 11.5 % within the manufacturing sector .
Although the economy as a whole gained 975,941 jobs between 1995 and 2006 , the agro-processing sector lost 45,977 jobs .
The competitive pressures from abroad , particularly from China and India , played a role in the decline of exports for the food , textiles and paper sub-sectors , as firms in these sectors increasingly compete with lower cost producers .
The South African automotive industry accounts for about 10 % of Economy of South Africa manufacturing exports , contributes 7.5 % to the country 's GDP and employs around 36,000 people .
BMW , Ford , Volkswagen , Daimler-Chrysler , General Motors and Toyota all have production plants in South Africa .
A revenue equalling between 1 % and 3 % of GDP is generated by the tourism industry .
Economy of South Africa has a sophisticated financial structure with the JSE Securities Exchange , a large and active stock exchange that ranks 18th in the world in terms of total market capitalisation as of March 2009 .
The banking industry , overseen by the South African Reserve Bank , is dominated by four local players : Nedbank , ABSA , Standard Bank and First Rand .
These banks provide both retail and investment banking services as the sector has become highly competitive with the re-entry of many experienced foreign banks , which returned to the market in the mid-1990s , having left in the late 1980s .
Principal international trading partners of South Africa -- besides other African countries -- include Germany , the United States , China , Japan , the United Kingdom and Spain .
Deals between the British based Vodafone and South Africa 's Vodacom have taken place in 2006 .
In mid-1998 , the Southern African Migration Project ( SAMP ) undertook a study to examine and assess the range of factors that contribute to skilled South Africans ' desire to leave the country : over two-thirds of the sample said that Economy of South Africa had given the idea of emigration some thought while 38 % said they had given Economy of South Africa a `` great deal of thought '' .
For example the demand for skilled labourers in the UK , US , Canada , New Zealand , and Australia has led to active recruitment programs by those countries in South Africa .
The crisis was resolved within a few months , but the margin between national demand and available capacity is still low ( particularly in peak hours ) , and power stations are under strain , such that another phase of rolling blackouts is probable if parts of the supply are halted for whatever reason .
The South African government planned to spend R69 billion on water infrastructure between 2008 and 2015 .
The mean per capita income has risen from R10 ,741 in 1993 to R24 ,409 in 2008 , but these figures hide large differences in household welfare , both within and across population groups : the average Black income increased from R6 ,018 in 1993 to R9 ,718 in 2008 ; for Coloured households , the increase was from R7 ,498 to R25 ,269 ; for Whites , the increase was from R29 ,372 to R110 ,195 .
The number of South Africans living below the poverty line , identified according to Apartheid-era social categories , was calculated in one study as 56 % `` black '' , 27 % `` coloured '' , 9 % `` India '' , and 2 % `` white '' .
Economy of South Africa is one of world 's largest producers of : chicory roots ( 4th ) ; grapefruit ( 4th ) ; cereals ( 5th ) ; green maize and maize ( 7th ) ; castor oil seed ( 9th ) ; pears ( 9th ) ; sisal ( 10th ) ; fibre crops ( 10th ) .
Vodacom , together with the other operators , have come under criticism in late 2009 by government and the public for high interconnect charges .
According to Neotel , up-take of Telecommunications in South Africa services has exceeded expectations , and as a result Neotel are rapidly expanding services throughout major metropolitan areas in South Africa .
After Bell Labs ' development of undersea telephone signal repeaters , the first undersea links were introduced connecting Durban and Europe , and soon after to the rest of the world .
The first public videoconference between the continent of Africa and North America occurred on 24 June 1995 ( 2:00 -3:00 p.m. PST ) .
The national speed limit is between 50 or 80 km/h in residential areas and 120 km/h on national roads/freeways/motorways .
On 2010-06-07 the Gautrain opened between Oliver R Tambo International Airport ( ORTIA ) and Sandton .
This is the first stage of a standard gauge passenger line connecting Johannesburg , Pretoria and ORTIA .
Six were container ships , and two were petroleum tankers ( including foreign-owned ships registered as a flag of convenience : Denmark : 3 , Netherlands : 1 ) .
A player ( or team ) wins a ( individual game ) of snooker by scoring more points than the opponent ( s ) , using the cue ball to the red and coloured balls .
Snooker , generally regarded as having been invented in India by British Army officers , is popular in many of the English-speaking and Commonwealth countries , with top professional players attaining multi-million-pound career earnings from Snooker .
One variation , devised in the officers ' mess in Jabalpur during 1874 or 1875 , was to add coloured balls in addition to the reds and black which were used for pyramid pool and life pool .
One version of events states that Colonel Sir Neville Chamberlain of the Devonshire regiment ( not the later Prime Minister of the same name ) was playing this new game when his opponent failed to pot a ball and Chamberlain called him Snooker .
In 1985 a total of 18.5 million viewers watched the concluding frame of the world championship final between Dennis Taylor and Steve Davis .
A foul can occur for numerous reasons , such as hitting a colour first when the player was attempting to hit a red , potting the cue ball , or failing to escape from '' '' ( a situation where the previous player finished his/her turn leaving the cue ball in a position where none of the balls on can be struck at both extreme edges free of obstruction by any ball not on ) .
Most professional matches require a player to win five frames , and are called `` Best of Nine '' as that is the maximum possible number of frames .
The traditional maximum break in snooker is to pot all reds with blacks then all colours , which would yield 147 points ; this is often known as a `` 147 '' or a `` maximum '' .
The World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association ( WPBSA , also known as World Snooker ) , founded in 1968 as the Professional Billiard Players ' Association , is the governing body for the professional game .
The tour contains 96 players -- the top 64 from the previous two seasons , the 8 highest ranked professional players on the Players Tour Championship Order of Merit who are not in the top 64 , 12 players from the Q School , and various regional , junior and amateur champions .
Multiple players , like Ronnie O'Sullivan , Mark Allen and Steve Davis , warn that there are so many tournaments that players burning out is a danger .
The tip of Snooker is `` chalked '' to ensure good contact between Snooker and the cue-ball .
This equipment , consisting of a rest with a single extended neck and a fork-like prong at the end , is used to give extra cueing distance over a group of balls .
Usually housed underneath the side of the table , the half butt is a combination of a table length rest and cue which is rarely used unless the cue ball needs to be struck in such a way that the entire length of the table is the actual obstacle .
The nap will affect the direction of the cue ball depending on which direction the cue ball is shot and also on whether left or right side ( spin ) is placed on the ball .
South South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands and the South Sandwich Islands ( SGSSI ) is a British overseas territory in the southern Atlantic Ocean .
The United Kingdom claimed sovereignty over South Georgia in 1775 and the South Sandwich Islands in 1908 .
The Argentine claim over South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands contributed to the 1982 Falklands War , during which Argentine forces briefly occupied the island .
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands has been confused with Pepys Island , discovered by Dampier and Cowley in 1683 , but this proved to be a phantom island .
A Norwegian , Carl Anton Larsen , established the first land-based whaling station and first permanent habitation at Grytviken in 1904 .
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands `` putrid vapors resembled the pong of bad fish , manure , and a tanning works mixed together , '' wrote Tim Flannery , who noted one bizarre peril : `` A rotting whale could fill with gas to bursting , ejecting a fetus the size of a motor vehicle with sufficient force to kill a man '' .
The Falklands War was precipitated on 19 March 1982 when a group of Argentinians , posing as scrap metal merchants , occupied the abandoned whaling station at Leith Harbour on South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands .
Most of the islands , rising steeply from the sea , are rugged and mountainous .
The South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands group lies about east-southeast of the Falkland Islands , at 54 ° -- 55 ° S , 36 ° -- 38 ° W .
The northernmost of the South Sandwich Islands form the Traversay Islands and Candlemas Islands groups , while the southernmost make up Southern Thule .
Nelson Channel is the passage between Candlemas and Vindication Island .
The prevailing weather conditions generally make the islands difficult to approach by ship , though the north coast of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands has several large bays which provide good anchorage .
A study published during the early 1960s indicated that sunshine recording instruments remained significantly obscured throughout the year and entirely obscured during June .
Mountain winds blow straight up the western side and straight down the eastern side of the mountains and become much warmer and drier ; this produces the most pleasant conditions when temperatures can occasionally rise over 20 C 0 abbr = on on summer days .
An Executive Officer ( Richard McKee ) deals with administrative matters relating to South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands .
As there are no native inhabitants , economic activity in South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands and the South Sandwich Islands is limited .
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands has revenues of # 3.9 million , 90 % of which is derived from fishing licences ( 2002 figures ) .
In 2001 the South Georgia government was cited by the Marine Stewardship Council for South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands sustainable Patagonian toothfish fishery , certifying that South Georgia met the MSC 's environmental standards .
A large source of income from abroad also comes from the issue of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands and the South Sandwich Islands postage stamps which are produced in the UK .
On 23 February 2012 , in order to protect marine biodiversity , South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands government created the world 's largest protected area -- South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands and the South Sandwich Islands Marine Protection Area -- comprising 1.07 million km2 .
This was scaled down during the 1990s until the last detachment left South Georgia in March 2001 , after a new station had been built and occupied by the British Antarctic Survey .
Feeling against Catholics , and especially against James , Duke of York , was running strongly ; the Exclusion Bill had been passed by the House of Commons , and the popularity of James Scott , 1st Duke of Monmouth , was very great .
The Sistema Central , described as the `` dorsal spine '' of the Meseta Central , divides the Meseta into northern and southern subregions , the former higher in elevation and smaller in area than the latter .
The Sistema Central rims the capital city of Madrid with peaks that rise to 2,400 m north of the city and to lower elevations south of it .
The Cordillera Cantábrica , a limestone formation , runs parallel to , and close to , the northern coast near the Bay of Biscay .
The Sistema Ibérico extends from the Cordillera Cantábrica southeastward and , close to the Mediterranean , spreads out from the Río Ebro to the Río Júcar .
The Pyrenees , extending from the eastern edge of the Cordillera Cantábrica to the Mediterranean Sea , form a solid barrier and a natural border between Spain and both France and Andorra that , throughout history , has effectively isolated the countries from each other .
The Sierra Nevada , part of the Sistema Penibético south of Granada , includes the highest mountain on the peninsula and continental Spain , Mulhacén , which rises to 3,479 m .
The Coastal Plains regions are narrow strips between the coastal mountains and the seas .
The large central islands , Tenerife and Gran Canaria , have the highest peaks .
Teide , a dormant volcano , is the highest peak of Spain and the third largest volcano in the world from Geography of Spain base .
The CIA Factbook ( 2011 ) gives a racial description of `` composite of Mediterranean and Nordic types '' under `` ethnic groups '' instead of the usual breakdown of ethnic composition .
Also included are many Spaniard citizens who are descendents of people from Spain 's former colonies , mostly from Equatorial Guinea , Argentina , Dominican Republic , Ecuador , Peru , Colombia , Morocco and the Philippines .
Demographics of Spain is free in public schools and in many private schools , most of which receive government subsidies .
Spain is established as a social and democratic state , wherein the national sovereignty is vested in the people , from which the powers of the State emanate .
The form of government in Spain is a parliamentary monarchy , that is , a social representative , democratic , constitutional monarchy in which the monarch is the head of state and the prime minister -- whose official title is `` president of the Government '' -- is the head of government .
Regional parties , mainly the Basque Nationalist Party ( EAJ-PNV ) from the Basque Country , and Convergence and Union ( CiU ) and the Socialists ' Party of Catalonia ( PSC ) from Catalonia , have also played key roles in Politics of Spain .
Regional government functions under a system known as the state of autonomies , a highly decentralized system of administration based on asymmetrical devolution to the `` nationalities and regions '' that constitute the nation , and in which the nation , via the central government , retains full sovereignty .
In the same way , the King does not have supreme liberty in the exercise of the aforementioned functions ; all of these are framed , limited or exercised `` according to the constitution and laws '' , or following requests of the executive or authorizations of the legislature .
What this means in practice , is that the Crown is passed to the firstborn , who would have preference over his siblings and cousins ; women can only accede to the throne provided Politics of Spain do not have any older or younger brothers ; and finally `` regular order of representation '' means that grandchildren have preference over the deceased King 's parents , uncles or siblings .
Finally , if all possible rightful orders of primogeniture and representation have been exhausted , then the General Courts will select a successor in the way that best suits the interest of Spain .
`` Cortes '' has been the historical and constitutional name used since Medieval Times .
The voting system used is that of proportional representation with closed party lists following D'Hondt method in which the province forms a constituency or electoral circumscription and must be assigned a minimum of 2 deputies ; the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla , are each assigned one deputy .
Since the constitution allowed for the creation of autonomous communities , but the process Politics of Spain was embryonic in nature -- Politics of Spain were formed after the promulgation of the constitution , and the outcome was unpredictable -- the constituent assembly chose the province as the basis for territorial representation .
The Judiciary is composed of different courts depending on the jurisdictional order and what is to be judged .
The Basque Country , Catalonia and Navarre have their own police forces ( Ertzaintza , Mossos d'Esquadra and the Chartered Police respectively ) while the National Police Corps operates in the rest of the autonomous communities .
On the other hand , two communities ( the Basque Country and Navarre ) are `` communities of chartered regime '' , that is , they have full fiscal autonomy , whereas the rest are `` communities of common regime '' , with limited fiscal powers ( the majority of their taxes are administered centrally and redistributed among them all for fiscal equalization ) .
In addition , the Aragonese Party , United Extremadura , and the Union of Navarrese People participated in the elections forming regional coalitions with the People 's Party .
Elections to the Cortes Generales are held every four years or before if the prime ministers calls for an early election .
A similar procedure of block voting is used to select the three senators from the three major islands whereas the senators of the smaller islands or group of islands , are elected by plurality .
The Constituent Assembly in 1978 struck a balance between the opposing views of centralism , inherited from Franco 's regime , and those who viewed Spain as a `` nation of nations '' .
In practice , and as Politics of Spain began to be used in Spanish jurisprudence , the term `` nationalities '' makes reference to those regions or autonomous communities with a strong historically constituted sense of identity or a recognized historical cultural identity , as part of the indivisible Spanish nation .
Although the government of the Basque Country does not condone any kind of violence , their different approaches to the separatist movement are a source of tension between the Central and Basque governments .
On 17 May 2005 , all the parties in the Congress of Deputies , except the PP , passed the Government 's motion giving approval to the beginning of peace talks with ETA , without making political concessions and with the requirement that it give up Politics of Spain weapons .
It is a multiple-step sequence of photolithographic and chemical processing steps during which electronic circuits are gradually created on a wafer made of pure semiconducting material .
Another method , called silicon on insulator technology involves the insertion of an insulating layer between the raw silicon wafer and the thin layer of subsequent silicon epitaxy .
This occurs in a series of wafer processing steps collectively referred to as BEOL ( not to be confused with back end of Semiconductor device fabrication which refers to the packaging and testing stages ) .
These dielectrics presently take the form of SiOC ( silicon oxycarbide ) and have dielectric constants around 2.7 ( compared to 3.9 for SiO2 ) , although materials with constants as low as 2.2 are being offered to chipmakers .
Most fabrication facilities employ exhaust management systems , such as wet scrubbers , combustors , heated absorber cartridges etc. , to control the risk to workers and also the environment if these toxic materials are released into the atmosphere .
Sanskrit ( , originally , `` refined speech '' ) is a historical Indo-Aryan language , Sanskrit and Sanskrit .
Sanskrit is derived from the root `` to put together , compose , arrange , prepare '' , where `` together '' ( as English same ) and `` do , make '' .
Sanskrit referred to as `` the cultured language '' has by definition always been Sanskrit , used for religious and learned discourse in ancient India , and contrasted with the languages spoken by the people , `` natural , artless , normal , ordinary '' .
The deviations from in the epics are generally considered to be on account of interference from Prakrits , or `` innovations '' and not because Sanskrit are pre-Paninean .
According to , there were four principal dialects of classical Sanskrit : ( Northwestern , also called Northern or Western ) , ( lit. , middle country ) , ( Eastern ) and ( Southern , arose in the Classical period ) .
In the Republic of India , in Nepal and Indonesia , Sanskrit phrases are widely used as mottoes for various national , educational and social organizations ( much as Latin is used by some institutions in the West ) .
4th century BCE ) the development of Sanskrit may be observed in other Vedic texts : the Samaveda , Yajurveda , Atharvaveda , Brahmanas , and Upanishads .
During this time , the prestige of the language , Sanskrit use for sacred purposes , and the importance attached to Sanskrit correct enunciation all served as powerful conservative forces resisting the normal processes of linguistic change .
Use of Sanskrit lingered on in Kashmir even during the Muslim period as is observed by use of Sanskrit on Muslim tombstones and in official documents .
Both died slowly , and earliest as a vehicle of literary expression , while much longer retaining significance for learned discourse with Sanskrit universalist claims .
In USA , since Sep 2009 , high school students have been able receive credits ( as Independent Study or towards Foreign Language requirements ) by studying Sanskrit , as part of the `` SAFL : Samskritam as a Foreign Language '' program coordinated by Samskrita Bharati .
European scholarship in Sanskrit , begun by Heinrich Roth ( 1620 -- 1668 ) and Johann Ernst Hanxleden ( 1681 -- 1731 ) , is regarded as responsible for the discovery of Sanskrit family by Sir William Jones .
The other was race science , which was a theorisation of the English `` common-sense view '' that Indians constituted a `` separate , inferior and unimprovable race '' .
The vowels of Classical Sanskrit written in Devanagari , as a syllable-initial letter and as a diacritic mark on the consonant , pronunciation transcribed in IPA , IAST , and approximate equivalent in English : The long vowels are pronounced twice as long as their short counterparts .
In Eastern India , the Bengali script and , later , the Oriya script , were used .
The thematic verbs are so called because an a , called the theme vowel , is inserted between the stem and the ending .
The verb tenses ( a very inexact application of the word , since more distinctions than simply tense are expressed ) are organized into four ` systems ' ( as well as gerunds and infinitives , and such creatures as intensives/frequentatives , desideratives , causatives , and benedictives derived from more basic forms ) based on the different stem forms ( derived from verbal roots ) used in conjugation .
The only exception to this are the singular neuter nominative and accusative forms , which are both kim and not the expected In addition to the pronouns described above , some adjectives follow the pronominal declension .
A compound where the relation of the first member to the last is appositional , attributive or adverbial ; e.g. , uluka-yatu ( owl + demon ) is a demon in the shape of an owl .
Sanskrit 's greatest influence , presumably , is that which Sanskrit exerted on languages of India that grew from Sanskrit vocabulary and grammatical base ; for instance , Hindi is a `` Sanskritized register '' of the Khariboli dialect .
Like Latin 's influence on European languages and Classical Chinese 's influence on East Asian languages , Sanskrit has influenced most Indian languages .
The national song of India , Vande Mataram , which was originally a poem composed by Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay and taken from his book called ` Anandamath ' , is in a similarly highly Sanskritized Bengali .
Recital of Sanskrit shlokas as background chorus in films , television advertisements and as slogans for corporate organizations has become a trend .
Dushyanth Sridhar from India has rendered the Sanskrit breathless file on Raghuveera Gadyam which is a popular video in the YouTube and this has been rendered in over 10 ragams .
There have been suggestions to use Sanskrit as a metalanguage for knowledge representation in e.g. machine translation , and other areas of natural language processing because of Sanskrit relatively high regular structure .
A sign language ( also signed Sign language ) is a language which , instead of acoustically conveyed sound patterns , uses manual communication and body language to convey meaning .
While Sign language utilize space for grammar in a way that spoken languages do not , sign languages exhibit the same linguistic properties and use the same language faculty as do spoken languages .
For example , the US , Canada , UK , Australia and New Zealand all have English as Sign language , but American Sign Language ( ASL ) , used in the US and most parts of Canada , is derived from French Sign Language whereas the other three countries sign dialects of British , Australian and New Zealand Sign Language .
International Sign , formerly known as Gestuno , is used mainly at international Deaf events such as the Deaflympics and meetings of the World Federation of the Deaf .
While iconicity is more systematic and widespread in Sign language than in spoken ones , the difference is not categorical .
Though there is still much discussion on the topic of iconicity in sign languages , classifiers are generally perceived to be highly iconic , as these complex constructions `` function as predicates that may express any or all of the following : motion , position , stative-descriptive , or handling information '' Sign language needs to be noted that the term classifier is not used by everyone working on these constructions .
Although not part of Sign language , elements from the Manual alphabets ( fingerspelling ) may be used in signed communication , mostly for proper names and concepts for which no sign is available at that moment .
Similarly , countries which use a single spoken language throughout may have two or more sign languages ; whereas an area that contains more than one spoken language might use Sign language .
South Africa , which has 11 official spoken languages and a similar number of other widely used spoken languages , is a good example of this .
Frishberg ( 1975 ) wrote a very influential paper addressing the relationship between arbitrariness and iconicity in ASL .
One of the prevailing beliefs at this time was that ` real languages ' must consist of an arbitrary relationship between form and meaning .
The cognitive linguistics perspective rejects a more traditional definition of iconicity as a relationship between linguistic form and a concrete , real-world referent .
Rather Sign language is a set of selected correspondences between the form and meaning of a sign .
The iconic correspondence is between form and concrete source .
The metaphorical correspondence is between concrete source and abstract target meaning .
That means , that via one syllable ( i.e. one word , one sign ) several morphemes can be expressed , like subject and object of a verb determine the direction of the verb 's movement ( inflection ) .
The special videophones that are designed for Sign language communication typically provide more frames per second than ` off-the-shelf ' services and may use data compression methods specifically designed to maximize the intelligibility of Sign language .
One of the first demonstrations of the ability for telecommunications to help Sign language users communicate with each other occurred when AT&T 's videophone ( trademarked as the `` Picturephone '' ) was introduced to the public at the 1964 New York World 's Fair -- two deaf users were able to freely communicate with each other between the fair and another city .
Although this kind of system is grossly inadequate for the intellectual development of a child and Sign language comes nowhere near meeting the standards linguists use to describe a complete language , Sign language is a common occurrence .
Famous examples of this include Martha 's Vineyard Sign Language in the USA , Kata Kolok in a village in Bali , Adamorobe Sign Language in Ghana and Sign language .
Since the muscles in babies ' hands grow and develop quicker than their mouths , Sign language is a beneficial option for better communication .
There have been several notable examples of scientists teaching non-human primates basic signs in order to communicate with humans , but the degree to which these basic signs relate to human Sign language and the ability of the animals in question to actually communicate is a matter of substantial controversy and dispute .
Sign language is a language which , instead of acoustically conveyed sound patterns , uses manual communication and body language to convey meaning .
Sign language is a set of selected correspondences between the form and meaning of a sign .
A string that is the reverse of String (computer science) ( e.g. , s = madam ) is called a palindrome , which also includes the empty string and all strings of length 1 .
To avoid such limitations , improved implementations of P-strings use 16 - , 32 - , or 64-bit words to store the string length .
Both character termination and length codes limit String (computer science) : For example , C character arrays that contain null ( NUL ) characters can not be handled directly by C string library functions : Strings using a length code are limited to the maximum value of the length code .
This meant that , while the IBM 1401 had a seven-bit word in `` reality '' , almost no-one ever thought to use this as a feature , and override the assignment of the seventh bit to ( for example ) handle ASCII codes .
There have been some Satanists , however , who have shown reverence for the similar , albeit differently-characterized Islamic concept of Satan ( Arabic : شيطان Shayṭān ) , also known as Iblis ( Arabic : إبليس ʾIblīs ) although this is much more uncommon as Satanism philosophy has primarily flourished in the Occident , and has likely not reached any Muslim-majority countries .
Theistic Satanism ( also known as traditional Satanism , spiritual Satanism or Devil Worship ) is a form of Satanism with the primary belief that Satan is an actual deity or force to revere or worship .
Most of black metal 's `` first wave '' bands only used Satanism for shock value ; one of the few exceptions is Mercyful Fate singer King Diamond , who follows LaVeyan Satanism and whom Michael Moynihan calls `` one of the only performers of the '80s Satanic Metal who was more than just a poseur using a devilish image for shock value '' .
The Order of Nine Angles ( ONA , O9A ) `` represent a dangerous and extreme form of Satanism '' and first attracted public attention during the 1980s and 1990s after being mentioned in books detailing fascist Satanism .
A specific institution characteristic to Socialist law was the so-called burlaw court ( or , verbally , `` court of comrades '' , Russian товарищеский суд ) which decided on minor offences .
Hence the rights that are normally unified in Western economies are split up between the individual farmer and the village committee .
In 1839 , A. E. Becquerel reported observation of a voltage between a solid and a liquid electrolyte when struck by light , the photovoltaic effect .
Agreement between theoretical predictions ( based on developing quantum mechanics ) and experimental results was sometimes poor .
A working solar cell , of low efficiency , was constructed by Charles Fritts in 1883 using a metal plate coated with selenium and a thin layer of gold ; the device became commercially useful in photographic light meters in the 1930s .
Insulators , by contrast , are very poor conductors of electricity because there is a large difference in energies ( called a band gap ) between electron-occupied energy levels and empty energy levels that allow for electron motion .
Semiconductor , on the other hand , have an intermediate level of electric conductivity when compared to metals and insulators .
The size of this energy gap ( bandgap ) determines whether Semiconductor is a semiconductor or an insulator ( nominally this dividing line is roughly 4 eV ) .
A second type of solution occurs for energy levels in the so-called `` forbidden '' gaps between `` allowed '' states -- in this case , the electron can not travel indefinitely through the crystal with that energy and will either be reflected at the edges of the region , or possibly must pass through the region in a phenomenon called `` quantum tunnelling '' .
In the case of a metal , only a small amount of energy is needed for the electrons to find other unoccupied states to move into , and hence for current to flow .
Conservation of energy demands that these recombination events , in which an electron loses an amount of energy larger than the band gap , be accompanied by the emission of thermal energy ( in the form of phonons ) or radiation ( in the form of photons ) .
The n and p type designations indicate which charge carrier acts as Semiconductor majority carrier .
When an acceptor atom replaces a silicon atom in the crystal , a vacant state ( an electron `` hole '' ) is created , which can move around the lattice and functions as a charge carrier .
During manufacture , dopants can be diffused into the semiconductor body by contact with gaseous compounds of the desired element , or ion implantation can be used to accurately position the doped regions .
A high degree of crystalline perfection is also required , since faults in crystal structure ( such as dislocations , twins , and stacking faults ) interfere with the Semiconductor properties of Semiconductor .
Several other compounds are being explored for n-type organic semiconductors for use in organic field-effect transistors ( OFET ) , such as fullerene ( C60 ) and chemically modified oligothiophenes .
Semiconductor are made from these compounds by reduction with electron withdrawing groups or , alternatively , by modifying the surface properties to control electron trapping .
High amylose starch , amylomaize , is cultivated for the use of Starch gel strength and for use as a resistant starch ( a starch that resists digestion ) in food products .
The details of this reaction are not yet fully known , but it is thought that the iodine ( I3 − and I5 − ions ) fit inside the coils of amylose , the charge transfers between the iodine and Starch , and the energy level spacings in the resulting complex correspond to the absorption spectrum in the visible light region .
Starch indicator solution consisting of water , starch and iodine is often used in redox titrations : in the presence of an oxidizing agent the solution turns blue , in the presence of reducing agent the blue color disappears because triiodide ( I3 − ) ions break up into three iodide ions , disassembling the starch-iodine complex .
Widely used prepared foods containing starch are bread , pancakes , cereals , noodles , pasta , porridge and tortilla .
Starch was widely used in Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries to stiffen the wide collars and ruffs of fine linen which surrounded the necks of the well-to-do .
The table or granulated sugar most customarily used as food is sucrose , a disaccharide ( in the body , sucrose hydrolyses into fructose and glucose ) .
Crusade chronicler William of Tyre , writing in the late 12th century , described sugar as `` very necessary for the use and health of mankind '' .
For example , Lieutenant J. Paterson , of the Bengal establishment , persuaded the British Government that Sugar could be cultivated in British India with many advantages and at less expense than in the West Indies .
Almost all sugars have the formula ( n is between 3 and 7 ) .
All saccharides with more than one ring in their structure result from two or more monosaccharides joined by glycosidic bonds with the resultant loss of a molecule of water ( H2O ) per bond .
Sugar each exist as several isomers with dextro - and laevo-rotatory forms which cause polarized light to diverge to the right or the left .
Sugar is cultivated in tropical and sub-tropical regions for the sucrose that is found in Sugar stems .
Both involve the precipitation of a fine solid in the syrup and when this is filtered out , a lot of the impurities are removed at the same time .
However , it turned out that white bread or French fries have the same effect on blood sugar as pure glucose , while fructose , although a simple carbohydrate , has a minimal effect on blood sugar .
Studies on the link between sugars and diabetes are inconclusive , with some suggesting that eating excessive amounts of sugar does not increase the risk of diabetes , although the extra calories from consuming large amounts of sugar can lead to obesity , which may Sugar increase the risk of developing this metabolic disease .
Other studies show correlation between refined sugar ( free sugar ) consumption and the onset of diabetes , and negative correlation with the consumption of fiber .
This found that `` SSBs ( sugar-sweetened beverages ) may increase the risk of metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes not only through obesity but also by increasing dietary glycemic load , leading to insulin resistance , β-cell dysfunction , and inflammation '' .
This analysis shows a major eating pattern for those with Alzheimer 's characterised by a high intake of meat , butter , high-fat dairy products , eggs , and refined sugar , while the major eating pattern for those without Alzheimer 's was characterised by a high intake of grains and vegetables .
Salma Hayek Jiménez ( born September 2 , 1966 ) is a Mexican American film actress , director and producer .
Hayek 's recent films include Grown Ups ( 2010 ) acting alongside Adam Sandler , and Puss in Boots ( 2011 ) , which also features former collaborator Antonio Banderas , wherein Salma Hayek is the voice of the character ` Kitty Softpaws ' .
( Pampers diapers cost approximately 25 cents each , or about US $ 1,000 per child per year in the US market ) .
On March 9 , 2007 , Hayek confirmed Salma Hayek engagement to French billionaire and PPR CEO François-Henri Pinault as well as Salma Hayek pregnancy .
In 2013 , Salma Hayek launched with Beyoncé Knowles and Frida Giannini a Gucci campaign , `` Chime For Change '' , that aims to spread female empowerment .
That same month , a poll found Hayek to be the `` sexiest celebrity '' out of a field of 3,000 celebrities ( male and female ) ; according to the poll , `` 65 percent of the U.S. population would use the term ` sexy ' to describe Salma Hayek '' .
In 2008 , Salma Hayek was awarded the Women in Film Lucy Award in recognition of Salma Hayek excellence and innovation in Salma Hayek creative works that have enhanced the perception of women through the medium of television In December of that year , Entertainment Weekly ranked Hayek number 17 in their list of the `` 25 Smartest People in TV '' .
The game was created as part of a merger agreement between the NFL and Super Bowl then-rival league , the American Football League ( AFL ) .
Super Bowl XLV , played in 2011 , became the most-watched American television program in history , drawing an average audience of 111 million viewers and taking over the spot held by the previous year 's Super Bowl , which Super Bowl had taken over the 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M Because of its high viewership , commercial airtime during the Super Bowl broadcast is the most expensive of the year .
As a result , watching and discussing the broadcast 's commercials has become a significant aspect of the event .
The stadium got Super Bowl name from the fact that the game played there was part of the Tournament of Roses and that it was shaped like a bowl , much like the Yale Bowl in New Haven , Connecticut ; the Tournament of Roses football game itself eventually came to be known as the Rose Bowl Game .
The Browns and Lions both won NFL Championships prior to Super Bowl creation , while the Jaguars ( 1995 ) and Texans ( 2002 ) are both recent NFL expansion teams .
These two championships , coupled with the Packers ' NFL championships in , , and , amount to the most successful stretch in NFL History ; five championships in seven years .
Pittsburgh still remains the only team to win back-to-back Super Bowls twice and four Super Bowls in a six-year period .
As in the 1970s , the Oakland Raiders were the only team to interrupt the Super Bowl dominance of other teams ; Super Bowl won Super Bowls XV and XVIII ( the latter as the Los Angeles Raiders ) .
The remainder were won between the Patriots , Steelers , Ravens , and Colts .
Super Bowl was Super Bowl XVI in 1982 , which was watched in 49.1 percent of households ( 73 share ) , or 40,020,000 households at the time .
Super Bowl XVI still ranks fourth on Nielsen 's list of top-rated programs of all time , and three other Super Bowl , XII , XVII , and XX , made the top ten .
Early Super Bowls featured a halftime show consisting of marching bands from local colleges or high schools ; but as the popularity of the game increased , a trend where popular singers and musicians performed during Super Bowl pre-game ceremonies and the halftime show , or simply sang the national anthem of the United States , emerged .
Immediately after the moment , the footage jump-cut to a wide-angle shot and went to a commercial break ; however , video captures of the moment in detail circulated quickly on the internet .
The closest have been the San Francisco 49ers who played Super Bowl XIX in Stanford Stadium , rather than Candlestick Park , and the Los Angeles Rams who played Super Bowl XIV in the Rose Bowl , rather than the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum .
In both cases , the stadium in which Super Bowl was held was perceived to be a better stadium for a large , high-profile event than the stadiums the Rams and 49ers were playing in at the time ; this situation has not arisen since 1993 , in part because Super Bowl has traditionally awarded the Super Bowl in modern times to the newest stadiums .
Super Bowl XLIV , slated for February 7 , 2010 , was withdrawn from New York City 's proposed West Side Stadium , because the city , state , and proposed tenants New York Jets could not agree on funding .
The designated `` home team '' alternates between the NFC team in odd-numbered games and the AFC team in even-numbered games .
The Cowboys , since , and Redskins , since the arrival of coach Joe Gibbs in , have traditionally worn white jerseys at home .
The NFL is vigilant on stopping what Super Bowl says is unauthorized commercial use of Super Bowl trademarked terms `` NFL , '' `` Super Bowl , '' and `` Super Sunday '' .
As a result , many events and promotions tied to the game , but not sanctioned by the NFL , are forced to refer to Super Bowl with colloquialisms such as `` The Big Game , '' or other generic descriptions .
Legislation was proposed by Utah Senator Orrin Hatch in 2008 `` to provide an exemption from exclusive rights in copyright for certain nonprofit organizations to display live football games , '' and `` for other purposes '' .
Surface area is the total area of the faces and curved surface of a solid figure .
Mathematical description of the surface area is considerably more involved than the definition of arc length or polyhedra ( objects with flat polygonal faces ) the surface area is the sum of the areas of Surface area faces .
Extensions of the notion of area which partially fulfill Surface area function and may be defined even for very badly irregular surfaces are studied in the geometric measure theory .
Serbo-Croatian , or Serbo-Croatian , less commonly Serbo-Croatian ( BCS ) , is a South Slavic language and Serbo-Croatian , Montenegro .
Unofficially , Serbs and Croats typically called the language `` Serbian '' or `` Croatian '' , respectively , without implying a distinction between the two , and again recently in newly independent Bosnia and Herzegovina , `` Croatian '' , `` Bosnian '' , and `` Serbian '' were considered to be three names of Serbo-Croatian .
Today , use of the term `` Serbo-Croatian '' is controversial due to the prejudice that nation and language must match .
The two variants of Serbo-Croatian , liturgical and non-liturgical , continued to be a part of the Glagolitic service as late as the middle of the 19th century .
Old Slavonic developed into the Serbo-Croatian variant of Church Slavonic between the 12th and 16th centuries .
One of the earliest attestations of Serbo-Croatian is the Humac tablet , dating from the 10th or 11th century and written in Bosnian Cyrillic , as was the oldest South Slavic document , the Bosnian statehood charter of 1189 , written by Ban Kulin of Bosnia .
However , the luxurious and ornate representative texts of Serbo-Croatian Church Slavonic belong to the later era , when Serbo-Croatian coexisted with the Serbo-Croatian vernacular literature .
The most notable are the `` Missal of Duke Novak '' from the Lika region in northwestern Croatia ( 1368 ) , `` Evangel from Reims '' ( 1395 , named after the town of Serbo-Croatian final destination ) , Hrvoje 's Missal from Bosnia and Split in Dalmatia ( 1404 ) , and the first printed book in Serbo-Croatian , the Glagolitic Missale Romanum Glagolitice ( 1483 ) .
From the 14th and the 15th centuries , both secular and religious songs at church festivals were composed in the vernacular .
These začinjavci were the forerunners of the rich literary production of the 16th century literature , which , depending on the area , was Chakavian - , Kajkavian - , or Shtokavian-based .
Thus Serbo-Croatian appeared , which the Serbs officially called `` Serbo-Croatian '' or `` Serbian or Croatian '' and the Croats `` Serbo-Croatian '' , or Serbo-Croatian .
Because of the unitarian politics of King Aleksandar I Karađorđević , as of 1929 , the country 's name was changed to Kingdom of Yugoslavia , all ethnic denominations were erased , and the `` Yugoslavian '' became the only official language .
Only the Yugoslav Army used Serbo-Croatian as the sole language of command , with all other languages represented in the army 's other activities -- however , this is not different to other armies of multilingual states , or in other specific institutions , such as international air traffic control where English is used worldwide .
And within Serbo-Croatian , the Serbian variant , with twice as many speakers as the Croatian , enjoyed greater prestige , reinforced by the fact that Slovene and Macedonian speakers preferred Serbo-Croatian to the Croatian variant because their languages are also Ekavian .
Actually , aspects `` compensate '' for the relative lack of tenses , because aspect of the verb determines whether the act is completed or in progress in the referred time .
In a word , vowels can be long in the stressed syllable and the syllables following Serbo-Croatian , never in the ones preceding Serbo-Croatian .
The Croatian Latin alphabet ( Gajica ) followed suit shortly afterwards , when Ljudevit Gaj defined Serbo-Croatian as standard Latin with five extra letters that had diacritics , apparently borrowing much from Czech , but also from Polish , and inventing the unique digraphs `` lj '' , `` nj '' and `` dž '' .
The prefix prě - ( `` trans - , over - '' ) when long became pre - in eastern Ijekavian dialects but to prije - in western dialects ; in Ikavian pronunciation , Serbo-Croatian also evolved into pre - or prije - due to potential ambiguity with pri - ( `` approach , come close to '' ) .
Bernhard Gröschel asserts that the differences between the variants of Serbo-Croatian are less significant than those between the Dutch and the Flemish variants of Dutch .
Gröschel argues that even linguistic differences between Whites and Blacks in the USA major cities exceed those between the standard variants of Serbo-Croatian .
Daniel Blum maintains that the distinctions between the variants of Serbo-Croatian are less significant than those between the Hindi and the Urdu variants of Hindustani .
The views of the majority of Croatian linguists that there is no Serbo-Croatian , but several different standard languages , have been sharply criticized by German linguist Bernhard Gröschel in his monograph Serbo-Croatian Between Linguistics and Politics .
A more detailed overview , incorporating arguments from the Croatian philology and contemporary linguistics , would be as follows : Serbo-Croatian is a language One still finds many references to Serbo-Croatian , and proponents of Serbo-Croatian who deny that Croats , Serbs , Bosnians and Montenegrins speak different languages .
The topic of language for writers from Dalmatia and Dubrovnik prior to the 19th century made a distinction only between between speakers of Italian or Slavic , since those were the two main groups that inhabited Dalmatian city-states at that time .
This has been used as an argument to state that Croatian literature Croatian per se , but also includes Serbian and other languages that are part of Serbo-Croatian , These facts undermine Serbo-Croatian proponents ' argument that modern-day Croatian is based on Serbo-Croatian .
However , most intellectuals and writers from Dalmatia who used the Štokavian dialect and practiced the Catholic faith saw themselves as part of a Croatian nation as far back as the mid-16th to 17th century , some 300 years before Serbo-Croatian ideology appeared .
By far the most competent Serbian scientist on the Dubrovnik language issue , Milan Rešetar , who was born in Dubrovnik himself , wrote behalf of language characteristics : `` The one who thinks that Croatian and Serbian are two separate languages must confess that Dubrovnik always ( linguistically ) used to be Serbian '' .
The nationalists among the Croats conflictingly claim either that Serbo-Croatian speak an entirely separate language from Serbs and Bosnians or that these two peoples have , due to the longer lexicographic tradition among Croats , somehow `` borrowed '' their standard languages from them .
In Serbia , Serbo-Croatian is the official one , while both Serbian and Croatian are official in the province of Vojvodina .
Bosnian is an optional course in 1st and 2nd grade of the elementary school , while Serbo-Croatian is also in official use in the municipality of Novi Pazar .
In Bosnia and Herzegovina , all three languages are recorded as official but in practice and media , mostly Bosnian and Serbian are applied .
Saint Kitts and the neighbouring island of Nevis constitute one country : the Federation of Saint Kitts Saint Kitts .
This made Saint Kitts and Nevis the smallest nation to ever host a World Cup event .
The capital of the two-island nation , and also Saint Kitts largest port , is the town of Basseterre on Saint Kitts .
Tourism is a major and growing source of income to Saint Kitts , although the number and density of resorts is less than on many other Caribbean islands .
The Basseterre Ferry Terminal facilitates travel between Saint Kitts and sister island Nevis .
Shogi in Shogi present form was played as early as the 16th century , while a direct ancestor without the `` drop rule '' was recorded from 1210 in a historical document Nichūreki , which is an edited copy of Shōchūreki and Kaichūreki from the late Heian period ( c. 1120 ) .
On the reverse side of each piece , other than the king and gold general , are one or two other characters , in amateur sets often in a different color ( usually red ) ; this side is turned face up during play to indicate that the piece has been promoted .
Another typographic convention has abbreviated versions of the unpromoted ranks , with a reduced number of strokes : 圭 for a promoted knight , 杏 for a promoted lance , and the 全 as above for a promoted silver , but と for tokin .
Time limits are much longer than in International Chess ( 9 hours a side plus extra time in the prestigious Meijin title match ) , and in addition byōyomi ( literally `` second counting '' ) is employed .
The final ten seconds are counted down , and if the time expires the player to move loses the game immediately .
It is common to keep captured pieces on a wooden stand ( or komadai ) which is traditionally placed so that Shogi bottom left corner aligns with the bottom right corner of the board from the perspective of each player .
A gold general can move one square orthogonally , or one square diagonally forward , giving Shogi six possible destinations .
However , since a lance can not move backward or to the sides , Shogi must promote if Shogi arrives at the far rank .
Since a pawn can not move backward or to the sides , Shogi must promote ( see below ) if Shogi arrives at the far rank .
Each piece promotes as follows : A promoted rook ( `` dragon king '' , Ryuou ) may move as a rook or as a king , but not as both on the same turn .
Amateur players are ranked from 15 kyū to 1 kyū and then from 1 dan and upwards ; this is the same terminology as many other arts in Japan .
The opening consists of arranging one 's defenses and positioning for attack , the mid game consists of attempting to break through the opposing defenses while maintaining one 's own , and the end game starts when one side 's defenses have been compromised .
The dictionary of common folk culture , ( ca. 1210 -- 21 ) , a collection based on the two works and , describes two forms of shogi , large ( dai ) shogi and small ( shō ) shogi .
Around the 13th century the game of dai shogi developed , created by increasing the number of pieces in Heian shogi , as was sho shogi , which added the rook , bishop , and drunken elephant from dai shogi to Heian shogi .
Shogi and go were promoted by the Tokugawa shogunate .
After the Second World War , SCAP ( occupational government mainly led by US ) tried to eliminate all `` feudal '' factors from Japanese society and shogi was included in the possible list of items to be banned along with Bushido ( philosophy of samurai ) and other things .
Since the 1990s , shogi has grown in popularity outside Japan , particularly in the People 's Republic of China , and especially Shanghai .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from Solar energy , has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
However , all renewable energies , other than geothermal and tidal , derive Solar energy energy from the sun .
When these features are tailored to the local climate and environment Solar energy can produce well-lit spaces that stay in a comfortable temperature range .
The Romans recognized a right to light as early as the 6th century and English law echoed these judgments with the Prescription Act of 1832 .
Solar lights that charge during the day and light up at dusk are a common sight along walkways .
A solar chimney ( or thermal chimney , in this context ) is a passive solar ventilation system composed of a vertical shaft connecting the interior and exterior of a building .
The solar bowl is a concentrating technology employed by the Solar Kitchen at Auroville , in Tamil Nadu , India , where a stationary spherical reflector focuses light along a line perpendicular to the sphere 's interior surface , and a computer control system moves the receiver to intersect this line .
Following the work of Russell Ohl in the 1940s , researchers Solar energy , Calvin Fuller and Daryl Chapin created the silicon solar cell in 1954 .
Some have envisaged working solar fuel plants in coastal metropolitan areas by 2050 - the splitting of sea water providing hydrogen to be run through adjacent fuel-cell electric power plants and the pure water by-product going directly into the municipal water system .
Thermochemical cycles characterized by the decomposition and regeneration of reactants present another avenue for hydrogen production .
However development of solar technologies stagnated in the early 20th century in the face of the increasing availability , economy , and utility of coal and petroleum .
In aeronautics and fluid dynamics the `` International Standard Atmosphere '' ( ISA ) is a specification of pressure , temperature , density , and speed of sound at each altitude .
where ( in SI metric units ) : The technical literature can be confusing because many authors fail to explain whether Standard conditions for temperature and pressure are using the universal gas law constant R , which applies to any ideal gas , or whether Standard conditions for temperature and pressure are using the gas law constant Rs , which only applies to a specific individual gas .
Script kiddie known as skid , script bunny , script kitty , ) are unskilled individuals who use scripts or programs developed by others to attack computer systems and networks and deface websites .
Such programs have included remote denial-of-service WinNuke , trojans Back Orifice , NetBus , Sub7 , and ProRat , vulnerability scanner/injector kit Metasploit , and often software intended for legitimate security auditing .
MafiaBoy , a high school student from Montreal , Canada , was arrested in 2000 for using downloaded tools to launch a series of highly publicized denial-of-service attacks against high-profile Web sites such as Yahoo! , Dell , eBay , and CNN .
Scalable Vector Graphics ( SVG ) is an XML-based vector image format for two-dimensional graphics that has support for interactivity and animation .
In addition to these variants and profiles , the SVG Print specification ( still a Working Draft ) contains guidelines for printable SVG 1.2 and SVG Tiny 1.2 documents .
The MPEG-4 Part 20 standard - Lightweight Application Scene Representation ( LASeR ) and Simple Aggregation Format ( SAF ) is based on SVG Tiny .
For example M ( for ` move to ' ) precedes initial numeric x and y coordinates and L ( line to ) precedes a point to which a line should be drawn .
Fully opaque clipping paths and semi-transparent masks are composited together to calculate the color and opacity of every pixel of the final image , using alpha blending .
As of 2011 , all major desktop browsers , and many minor ones , have some level of SVG support .
Internet Explorer , up to and including IE8 , was the only major browser not to provide native SVG support .
On 5 January 2010 , a senior manager of the Internet Explorer team at Microsoft announced on his official blog that Microsoft had just requested to join the SVG Working Group of the W3C in order to `` take part in ensuring future versions of the SVG spec will meet the needs of developers and end users , '' although no plans for SVG support in Internet Explorer were mentioned at that time .
The presentation elements , attributes and DOM interfaces that have been implemented include basic shapes , colors , filling , gradients , patterns , paths and text .
As shared code bases between desktop and mobile browsers increased , the use of SVG 1.1 over SVGT 1.2 also increased .
Examples include Unix-like operating systems with Gallium3D based graphics drivers and several GPUs intended for handheld devices ( see OpenVG ) .
Spectroscopy is the study of the interaction between matter and radiated energy .
Gaseous nitrogen dioxide has a characteristic red absorption feature , and this gives air polluted with nitrogen dioxide a reddish brown color .
The energy of a photon is related to Spectroscopy frequency by where is Planck 's constant , and so a spectrum of the system response vs. photon frequency will peak at the resonant frequency or energy .
The explanation of these series , and the spectral patterns associated with them , were one of the experimental enigmas that drove the development and acceptance of quantum mechanics .
Types of spectroscopy can also be distinguished by the nature of the interaction between the energy and the material .
The combination of atoms into molecules leads to the creation of unique types of energetic states and therefore unique spectra of the transitions between these states .
Spectroscopy is terms used to refer to the measurement of radiation intensity as a function of wavelength and are often used to describe experimental spectroscopic methods .
The Statute of Anne ( c. 19 ) , an act of the Parliament of Great Britain , was the first statute to provide for copyright regulated by the government and courts , rather than by private parties .
These restrictions were enforced by the Stationers ' Company , a guild of printers given the exclusive power to print -- and the responsibility to censor -- literary works .
The censorship administered under the Licensing Act led to public protest ; as the act had to be renewed at two-year intervals , authors and others sought to prevent Statute of Anne reauthorisation .
A further proclamation of 1538 , aiming to stop the spread of Lutheran doctrine , saw Henry VIII note that `` sondry contentious and sinyster opiniones , have by wrong teachynge and naughtye bokes increaced and growen within this his realme of England '' , and declare that all authors and printers must allow the Privy Council or their agents to read and censor books before publication .
The old method of censorship had been limited by the Second Statute of Repeal , and with Mary 's increasing unpopularity the existing system was unable to cope with the number of critical works being printed .
This was not `` copyright '' as is normally understood ; although there was a monopoly on the right to copy , this was available to publishers , not authors , and did not exist by default ; Statute of Anne only applied to books which had been accepted and published by the Company .
The only exception to this was that , if a book was out of print for more than 6 months and the publisher ignored a warning to make Statute of Anne available , the copyright would be released and other publishers would be permitted to copy Statute of Anne .
At the same time , this was a period in which clearly defined political parties were taking shape , and with the promise of regular elections , an environment where the public were of increasing importance to the political process .
A committee , again led by Clarke , was to write a `` Bill for the Better Regulating of Printing and the Printing Presses '' .
After Statute of Anne demise , a string of newspapers sprang into being , including the Flying Post , the Evening Post and the Daily Courant .
Defoe 's A Review , published on 3 December 1709 and demanding `` a Law in the present Parliament ... for the Encouragement of Learning , Arts , and Industry , by securing the Property of Books to the Authors or Editors of them '' , was followed by How 's Some Thoughts on the Present State of Printing and Bookselling , which hoped that Parliament `` might think fit to secure Property in Books by a Law '' .
The aims of Statute of Anne are debated ; Ronan Deazley suggests that the intent was to balance the rights of the author , publisher and public in such a way as to ensure the maximum dissemination of works , while other academics argue that the bill was intended to protect the Company 's monopoly or , conversely , to weaken it .
Once registration had been completed and the deposits were made , the author was granted an exclusive right to control the copying of the book .
Penalties for infringing this right were severe , with all infringing copies to be destroyed and large fines to be paid to both the copyright holder and the government ; there was only a three-month statute of limitations on bringing a case , however .
Copyright under the Statute applied to Scotland and England , as well as Ireland when that country joined the union in 1800 .
The passage of the Statute was initially much welcomed , ushering in `` stability to an insecure book trade '' while providing for a `` pragmatic bargain '' between the rights of the author , publisher and public intended to boost public learning and the availability of knowledge .
The number of deposits required , however , meant that Statute of Anne was a substantial burden ; a print run might only be of 250 copies , and if Statute of Anne were particularly expensive to print , it could be cheaper to ignore the law .
Statute of Anne first tried going to the Court of Chancery and applying for injunctions prohibiting other publishers from printing their works , and this was initially successful .
The final decision , written by Lord Mansfield and endorsed by Aston and Willes JJ , confirmed that there existed copyright at common law that turned `` upon Principles before and independent '' of the Statute of Anne , something justified because it was right `` that an Author should reap the pecuniary Profits of his own Ingenuity and Labour '' .
Craig Joyce and Lyman Ray Patterson , writing in the Emory Law Journal , call this a `` too simple understanding that ignores Statute of Anne source '' , arguing that it is at best a derivative of the Licensing Act .
Statute of Anne also marked the first time that copyright had been vested primarily in the author , rather than the publisher , and also the first time that the injurious treatment of authors by publishers was recognised ; regardless of what authors signed away , the second 14 year term of copyright would automatically return to them .
In IceTV v Nine Network , for example , the High Court of Australia noted that the title of the Statute `` echoed explicitly the emphasis on the practical or utilitarian importance that certain seventeenth century philosophers attached to knowledge and Statute of Anne encouragement in the scheme of human progress '' .
Christophe Geiger notes that it is `` a difficult , almost impossible task '' to analyse the relationship between the Statute of Anne and early French copyright law , both because it is difficult to make a direct connection , and because the ongoing debate over both has led to radically different interpretations of each nation 's law .
The majority of states ( and the District of Columbia ) have charter school laws .
Minnesota was the first state to have a charter school law and the first charter school in the United States , City Academy High School , opened in St. Paul , Minnesota in 1992 .
`` Home education '' or `` home schooling '' is instruction in a child 's home , or provided primarily by a parent , or under direct parental control .
The Organisation Internationale pour le Droit à l'Education et la Liberté d'Enseignement ( OIDEL ) , an international non-profit organization for the development of freedom of education , maintains that the right to education is a fundamental human right which can not exist without the presence of State benefits and the protection of individual liberties .
Research indicates that adoption of current public school reform proposals , particularly the idea of providing parents with education vouchers , is likely to lead to an increase in private school enrollment or at least an increase in enrollment at schools traditionally defined as private with a blurring of the distinction between public and private schools due to the public source of the voucher financing .
This system of école libre ( Free Schooling ) is mostly used not for religious reasons , but for practical reasons ( private schools may offer more services , such as after-class tutoring ) as well as the desire of parents living in disenfranchised areas to send School choice children away from the local schools , where School choice perceive that the youth are too prone to delinquency or have too many difficulties keeping up with schooling requirements that the educational content is bound to suffer .
School choice system of school choice is one of the freest in the world , allowing students to use public funds for the publicly or privately run school of School choice choice , including religious and for-profit schools .
The reduction of students in municipal schools has gone from 78 % of all students in 1981 , to 57 % in 1990 , and to less than 50 % in 2005 .
Regarding vouchers in Chile , researchers have found that when controls for the student 's background ( parental income and education ) are introduced , the difference in performance between public and private subsectors is not significant .
As of 2005 over 14,000 students use vouchers and School choice are nearing the 15 % cap .
The Court has not indicated , however , whether this holding extends to the public school context , and School choice may well be limited to the context of individuals training to enter the ministry .
Arizona has probably the most well known and fastest growing tax credit program .
Minnesota was the first state to have a charter school law and the first charter school in the United States , City Academy , opened in St. Paul , Minnesota in 1992 .
A large number of the star systems shown on the map of the Frontier sector in the basic rulebook were unexplored and undetailed , allowing the Gamemaster ( called the `` referee '' in the game ) to put whatever Star Frontiers wished there .
Characters also each had a Primary Skill Area ( PSA -- Military , Technological , or Biosocial ) which allowed them to buy skills that fell into their PSA at a discount .
Many of the technological skills were penalized by the complexity of the robot , security system , or computer the character was attempting to manipulate ( also rated from 1 to 6 ) .
Star Frontiers included two ten-sided dice , a large set of cardboard counters , and a folding map with a futuristic city on one side and various wilderness areas on the other for use with the included adventure , SF-0 : Crash on Volturnus .
Despite this , many of Structuralism proponents , such as Jacques Lacan , continue to assert an influence on continental philosophy and many of the fundamental assumptions of some of Structuralism post-structuralist critics are a continuation of structuralism .
Blending Freud and de Saussure , the French ( post ) structuralist Jacques Lacan applied structuralism to psychoanalysis and , in a different way , Jean Piaget applied structuralism to the study of psychology .
Michel Foucault 's book The Order of Things examined the history of science to study how structures of epistemology , or episteme , shaped the way in which people imagined knowledge and knowing ( though Foucault would later explicitly deny affiliation with Structuralism ) .
Proponents of structuralism would argue that a specific domain of culture may be understood by means of a structure -- modelled on language -- that is distinct both from the organizations of reality and those of ideas or the imagination -- the `` third order '' .
In Lacan 's psychoanalytic theory , for example , the structural order of `` the Symbolic '' is distinguished both from `` the Real '' and `` the Imaginary '' ; similarly , in Althusser 's Marxist theory , the structural order of the capitalist mode of production is distinct both from the actual , real agents involved in Structuralism relations and from the ideological forms in which those relations are understood .
This was quite different from previous approaches that focused on the relationship between words and the things in the world that Structuralism designate .
Other key notions in structural linguistics include paradigm , syntagm , and value ( though these notions were not fully developed in Saussure 's thought ) .
A structural `` idealism '' is a class of linguistic units ( lexemes , morphemes or even constructions ) that are possible in a certain position in a given linguistic environment ( such as a given sentence ) , which is called the `` syntagm '' .
Saussure 's Course influenced many linguists between World War I and World War II .
In the United States , for instance , Leonard Bloomfield developed his own version of structural linguistics , as did Louis Hjelmslev in Denmark and Alf Sommerfelt in Norway .
Thus in English the sounds / p / and / b / represent distinct phonemes because there are cases ( minimal pairs ) where the contrast between the two is the only difference between two distinct words ( e.g.
Analyzing sounds in terms of contrastive features also opens up comparative scope -- Structuralism makes clear , for instance , that the difficulty Japanese speakers have differentiating / r / and / l / in English is because these sounds are not contrastive in Japanese .
Another concept utilised in structural anthropology came from the Prague school of linguistics , where Roman Jakobson and others analyzed sounds based on the presence or absence of certain features ( such as voiceless vs. voiced ) .
Based on Mauss , for instance , Lévi-Strauss argued that kinship systems are based on the exchange of women between groups ( a position known as ` alliance theory ' ) as opposed to the ` descent ' - based theory described by Edward Evans-Pritchard and Meyer Fortes .
Hence , everything that is written seems to be governed by specific rules , or a `` grammar of literature '' , that one learns in educational institutions and that are to be unmasked .
The versatility of structuralism is such that a literary critic could make the same claim about a story of two friendly families ( `` Boy 's Family + Girl 's Family '' ) that arrange a marriage between their children despite the fact that the children hate each other ( `` Boy - Girl '' ) and then the children commit suicide to escape the arranged marriage ; the justification is that the second story 's structure is an ` inversion ' of the first story 's structure : the relationship between the values of love and the two pairs of parties involved have been reversed .
There is considerable similarity between structural literary theory and Northrop Frye 's archetypal criticism , which is also indebted to the anthropological study of myths .
By the early 1960s structuralism as a movement was coming into Structuralism own and some believed that Structuralism offered a single unified approach to human life that would embrace all disciplines .
Cornelius Castoriadis ( 1975 ) criticized structuralism as failing to explain symbolic mediation in the social world ; he viewed structuralism as a variation on the `` logicist '' theme , and he argued that , contrary to what Structuralism advocate , language -- and symbolic systems in general -- can not be reduced to logical organizations on the basis of the binary logic of oppositions .
Critical theorist Jürgen Habermas ( 1985 ) accused Structuralism , such as Foucault , of being positivists ; he remarked that while Foucault is not an ordinary positivist , he nevertheless paradoxically uses the tools of science to criticize science ( see Performative contradiction and Foucault -- Habermas debate ) .
When it was no longer possible to rely on design evolution to improve upon Systems engineering and the existing tools were not sufficient to meet growing demands , new methods began to be developed that addressed the complexity directly .
In 1990 , a professional society for Systems engineering , the National Council on Systems engineering ( NCOSE ) , was founded by representatives from a number of U.S. corporations and organizations .
The traditional scope of engineering embraces the design , development , production and operation of physical systems , and Systems engineering , as originally conceived , falls within this scope .
`` Systems engineering '' , in this sense of the term , refers to the distinctive set of concepts , methodologies , organizational structures ( and so on ) that have been developed to meet the challenges of engineering functional physical systems of unprecedented complexity .
The use of the term `` system engineer '' has evolved over time to embrace a wider , more holistic concept of `` systems '' and of engineering processes .
Oliver et al. claim that the systems engineering process can be decomposed into Within Oliver 's model , the goal of the Management Process is to organize the technical effort in the lifecycle , while the Technical Process includes assessing available information , defining effectiveness measures , to create a behavior model , create a structure model , perform trade-off analysis , and create sequential build & test plan .
The need for Systems engineering arose with the increase in complexity of systems and projects , in turn exponentially increasing the possibility of component friction , and therefore the unreliability of the design .
The development of smarter control algorithms , microprocessor design , and analysis of environmental systems also come within the purview of Systems engineering .
Defining and characterizing such systems and subsystems and the interactions among them is one of the goals of Systems engineering .
In doing so , the gap that exists between informal requirements from users , operators , marketing organizations , and technical specifications is successfully bridged .
Keeping this in mind , the principles of Systems engineering -- holism , emergent behavior , boundary , et al. -- can be applied to any system , complex or otherwise , provided systems thinking is employed at all levels .
As of 2009 , there are about 80 institutions in United States that offer 165 undergraduate and graduate programs in Systems engineering .
Initially , when the primary purpose of Systems engineering is to comprehend a complex problem , graphic representations of Systems engineering are used to communicate Systems engineering functional and data requirements .
A decision matrix , or Pugh method , is one way ( QFD is another ) to make this choice while considering all criteria that are important .
Systems Modeling Language ( SysML ) , a modeling language used for Systems engineering applications , supports the specification , analysis , design , verification and validation of a broad range of complex systems .
Cognitive systems engineering ( CSE ) is a specific approach to the description and analysis of human-machine systems or sociotechnical systems .
Systems engineering parallels the taskings of systems engineering ; where Systems engineering deals with requirements development , allocation to development items and verification , configuration management deals with requirements capture , traceability to the development item , and audit of development item to ensure that it has achieved the desired functionality that Systems engineering and/or Test and Verification Engineering have proven out through objective testing .
The design of high-performance systems uses analytical or simulation modeling , whereas the delivery of high-performance implementation involves thorough performance testing .
The characters have since been the subject of a graphic adventure video game developed by LucasArts , a produced for Fox in cooperation with Nelvana Limited , and a series of episodic adventure games developed by Telltale Games .
In addition , a variety of machinima and a webcomic have been produced for the series .
Subsequent video games and the television series have also fared well with both critics and fans ; critics consider the episodic video games to be the first successful application of the episodic distribution model .
`` Night of the Gilded Heron-Shark '' and `` Night of the Cringing Wildebeest '' accompanied the main story , focusing on a stand-off with a group of gangsters in Sam & Max office and an investigation into a carnival refreshment booth respectively .
Like both Sam & Max Hit the Road and Freelance Police , Sam & Max Save the World was in a point-and-click graphic adventure game format .
Broadcast on Fox Kids in the United States , YTV in Canada , and Channel 4 in the United Kingdom , the first episode was aired on October 4 , 1997 ; the series concluded on April 25 , 1998 .
The first Sam & Max game , Sam & Max Hit the Road , was one of the first games to feature a fully scored music soundtrack , written by LucasArts ' composers Clint Bajakian , Michael Land and Peter McConnell .
The music was incorporated into the game using Land and McConnell 's iMUSE engine , which allowed for audio to be synchronized with the visuals .
In addition to a petition of 32,000 signatures objecting to the termination of development on Sam & Max : Freelance Police , both Steve Purcell and the media were critical of LucasArts ' decision .
Standard-definition television ( Standard-definition television ) is a television system that uses a resolution that is not considered to be either high-definition television ( HDTV 720p and 1080p ) or enhanced-definition television ( EDTV 480p ) .
The display ratio for broadcast widescreen is commonly 16:9 ( with a pixel ratio of 40:33 for anamorphic ) , the display ratio for a traditional or letterboxed broadcast is 4:3 ( with a pixel aspect ratio of 10:11 ) .
Sandstone ( sometimes known as arenite ) is a clastic sedimentary rock composed mainly of sand-sized minerals or rock grains .
Since sandstone beds often form highly visible cliffs and other topographic features , certain colors of sandstone have been strongly identified with certain regions .
Fine-grained aquifers , such as sandstones , are more apt to filter out pollutants from the surface than are rocks with cracks and crevices , such as limestone or other rocks fractured by seismic activity .
However , some that have been used in the past , such as the Collyhurst sandstone used in North West England , have been found less resistant , necessitating repair and replacement in older buildings .
The environment where Sandstone is deposited is crucial in determining the characteristics of the resulting sandstone , which , in finer detail , include Sandstone grain size , sorting , and composition and , in more general detail , include the rock geometry and sedimentary structures .
Dott 's classification scheme is based on the mineralogy of framework grains , and on the type of matrix present in between the framework grains .
Sophia of Hanover was also an heiress to the crowns of England ( later Great Britain ) and Ireland , countries Sophia of Hanover never visited .
Sophia , a granddaughter of James VI and Sophia of Hanover , died less than two months before Sophia of Hanover would have become queen ; Sophia of Hanover claim to the thrones passed on to Sophia of Hanover eldest son , George Louis , Elector of Hanover , who ascended them as George I on 1 August 1714 ( Old Style ) .
Born to Frederick V , Elector Palatine , and Elizabeth Stuart , in 1630 , Sophia grew up in the Dutch Republic , where Sophia of Hanover family had sought refuge after the sequestration of their Electorate during the Thirty Years ' War .
A daughter of Frederick V , Elector Palatine , and Elizabeth Stuart , also known as the `` Winter King and Queen of Bohemia '' for their short rule in that country , Sophia was born in The Wassenaer Hof , The Hague , Dutch Republic , where Sophia of Hanover parents fled into exile after the Battle of White Mountain .
Together with Ernst Augustus , Sophia of Hanover greatly improved the Summer Palace of Herrenhausen and Sophia of Hanover was the guiding spirit in the creation of the gardens ( which still exist ) surrounding the palace , where Sophia of Hanover died .
When the law was passed in mid-1701 , Sophia ( age 70 ) , five of Sophia of Hanover children ( ages 35 to 41 ) , and three legitimate grandchildren ( ages 14 to 18 ) were alive .
An earlier , similar invention , the Topografiner of R. Young , J. Ward , and F. Scire from the NIST , relied on field emission .
Parallel ATA ( PATA ) , originally , is an interface standard for the connection of storage devices such as hard disks , floppy drives , and optical disc drives in computers .
As a result , many near-synonyms for ATA/ATAPI and Parallel ATA previous incarnations are still in common informal use .
The interface cards used to connect a parallel ATA drive to , for example , a PCI slot are not drive controllers : Parallel ATA are merely bridges between the host bus and the ATA interface .
A short-lived , seldom-used implementation of ATA was created for the IBM XT and similar machines that used the 8-bit version of the ISA bus .
It was included on the sound card because early business PCs did not include support for more than simple beeps from the internal speaker , and tuneful sound playback was considered unnecessary for early business software .
An older business PC could be upgraded in this manner to meet the Multimedia PC standard for early software packages that used sound ( which required the sound card ) and colorful video animation ( which required the CD-ROM as floppy disks simply did not have the necessary data capacity ) .
This evolved into Parallel ATA for ease of cross-compatibility , though Parallel ATA still usually supported only a single CD-ROM and not hard drives .
For example , any removable media device needs a `` media eject '' command , and a way for the host to determine whether the media is present , and these were not provided in the ATA protocol .
The terms `` integrated drive electronics '' ( IDE ) , `` enhanced IDE '' and `` EIDE '' have come to be used interchangeably with ATA ( now Parallel ATA , or PATA ) .
ATA-4 drives are thus sometimes called `` UDMA-33 '' drives , and sometimes `` ATA-33 '' drives .
Initially the size of Parallel ATA was stored in the system x86 BIOS using a type number ( 1 through 45 ) that predefined the C/H/S parameters and also often the landing zone , in which the drive heads are parked while not in use .
This is also a limit imposed by x86 BIOSes , and not a limit imposed by Parallel ATA .
Connecting such a drive to a host with Parallel ATA or earlier interface will limit the usable capacity to the maximum of Parallel ATA .
Parallel ATA ( then simply called ATA or IDE ) became the primary storage device interface for PCs soon after Parallel ATA introduction .
This socket on the female connector is often obstructed , requiring pin 20 to be omitted from the male cable or drive connector , making Parallel ATA impossible to plug Parallel ATA in the wrong way round ; a male connector with pin 20 present can not be used .
The mode that a drive must use is often set by a jumper setting on the drive Parallel ATA , which must be manually set to master or slave .
If there is just one device on the cable , this results in an unused stub of cable , which is undesirable for physical convenience and electrical reasons .
The ATA-4 and subsequent versions of the specification have included an `` overlapped feature set '' and a `` queued feature set '' as optional features , both being given the name `` Tagged Command Queuing '' , a reference to a set of features from SCSI which the ATA version attempts to emulate .
However , support for these is extremely rare in actual parallel ATA products and device drivers because these feature sets were implemented in such a way as to maintain software compatibility with Parallel ATA heritage as originally an extension of the ISA bus .
By contrast , overlapped and queued operations have been common in other storage buses , in particular , SCSI 's version of tagged command queuing had no need to be software compatible with ISA 's APIs , allowing it to attain high performance with low overhead on buses which supported first party DMA like PCI .
Only one device on a cable can perform a read or write operation at one time , therefore a fast device on the same cable as a slow device under heavy use will find Parallel ATA has to wait for the slow device to complete Parallel ATA task first .
Parallel ATA may take half an hour or more , depending on the size of the disk .
All external PATA devices , such as external hard drives , use some other interface technology to bridge the distance between the external device and the computer .
For example , the maximum data transfer rate for conventional PCI bus is 133 MB/s , and this is shared among all active devices on the bus .
Furthermore , sustained transfer rate tests do not give realistic throughput expectations for most workloads : Parallel ATA use I/O loads specifically designed to encounter almost no delays from seek time or rotational latency .
Hard drive performance under most workloads is limited first and second by those two factors ; the transfer rate on the bus is a distant third in importance .
Only the Ultra DMA modes use CRC to detect errors in data transfer between the controller and drive .
Parallel ATA is bridges between the host bus and the ATA interface .
Marc Riley was formerly a member of British Manchester band the Fall and later the Creepers before embarking on a radio presentation career alongside Mark Radcliffe .
For example , the defining test for a bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell ( HSC ) is the ability to transplant one cell and save an individual without HSCs .
Also known as somatic ( from Greek Σωματικóς , `` of the body '' ) stem cells and germline ( giving rise to gametes ) stem cells , Stem cell can be found in children , as well as adults .
A certain kind of cord blood stem cell ( CB-SC ) is multipotent and displays embryonic and hematopoietic characteristics .
Challenging the terminal nature of cellular differentiation and the integrity of lineage commitment , it was recently determined that the somatic expression of combined transcription factors can directly induce other defined somatic cell fates ; researchers identified three neural-lineage-specific transcription factors that could directly convert mouse fibroblasts ( skin cells ) into fully functional neurons .
Another part of the challenge states that these techniques , developed by James A. Thomson , are rendered obvious by a 1990 paper and two textbooks .
Sappho birth was sometime between 630 and 612 BCE , and it is said that Sappho died around 570 BCE , but little is known for certain about Sappho life .
The Suda , a 10th-century Byzantine encyclopædia , dates her to the 42nd Olympiad ( 612/608 BCE ) , meaning either that Sappho was born then or that this was Sappho floruit .
If Fragment 98 of Sappho poetry is accepted as biographical evidence and as a reference to Sappho daughter ( see below ) , it may indicate that Sappho had already had a daughter by the time Sappho was exiled .
A story recorded by Herodotus , and later by Strabo , Athenaeus , Ovid and the Suda , tells of a relation between Charaxus and the Egyptian courtesan Rhodopis .
Herodotus , the oldest source of the story , reports that Charaxus ransomed Rhodopis for a large sum and that after he returned to Mitylene , Sappho scolded him in verse .
Strabo , writing some 400 years later , adds that Charaxus was trading with Lesbian wine and that Sappho called Rhodopis Doricha .
According to the Parian Marble , Sappho was exiled to Sicily sometime between 604 BCE and 594 BCE and Cicero records that a statue of Sappho stood in the town-hall of Syracuse .
Whether these poems are meant to be autobiographical is not known , although elements of other parts of Sappho 's life do make appearances in Sappho work , and it would be compatible with Sappho style to have these intimate encounters expressed poetically , as well .
As Page DuBois ( among many other experts ) points out , this attempt at making Sappho understandable and palatable to the genteel classes of Great Britain was based more on conservative sensibilities than evidence .
The latest reconstruction , by M. L. West , appeared in the Zeitschrift für Papyrologie und Epigraphik 151 ( 2005 ) , 1-9 , and in the Times Literary Supplement on 21 June 2005 ( English translation and discussion .
The poem refers to the plight of Tithonus , with whom the goddess Eos fell in love and requested he become immortal , but forgot to ensure that he stay forever young .
Out of over 200 remaining remnants of Sappho poetry , Fragment 16 and Fragment 44 in particular are considered lyric retellings of Homer epics , as Sappho was known to be very familiar with Homer 's poems .
Fragment 16 , for instance , serves to characterise Helen , a key figure of Homer 's , while Fragment 44 glorifies domestic joy by depicting the events leading to the wedding of Hector and Andromache .
Both discovered during the 1895 Oxyrhynchus excavation , Sappho 's Fragments 16 and 44 are translations from extant 2nd - and 3rd-century BC papyrus scrolls , which made them transcribed records of the lyrics Sappho sang while accompanying Sappho on a cithara .
Poetry , such as Sappho , written in quantitative verse , is difficult to reproduce in English which uses stress-based meters and rhyme compared to Ancient Greek 's solely length-based meters .
Still , the Sapphic stanza , strongly associated with Sappho poetry in the original , has become well known and influential among modern poets as well .
Sappho line-by-line translations , complete with brackets where the ancient papyrus sources break off , are meant to capture both the original 's lyricism and its present fragmentary nature .
Yet so costly was the Roman victory that the Emperor Hadrian , when reporting to the Roman Senate , did not see fit to begin with the customary greeting `` If you and your children are well , all is well .
In the aftermath of the war , Hadrian consolidated the older political units of Judaea , Galilee and Samaria into the new province of Syria Palaestina , which is commonly interpreted as an attempt to complete the disassociation with Judaea Over the past few decades , new information about the revolt has come to light , from the discovery of several collections of letters , some possibly by Bar Kokhba Simon bar Kokhba , in the Cave of Letters overlooking the Dead Sea .
The Atari 2600 was wildly successful , and during much of the 1980s , `` Atari '' was a synonym for this model in mainstream media and , by extension , for video games in general .
By the early 1970s , Hewlett Packard manufactured desktop computers costing thousands of dollars such as the HP 9830 , which packaged Read Only Memory ( ROM ) into removable cartridges to add special programming features , and these were being considered for use in games .
When Fairchild learned of Atari Inc. 's naming , Atari 2600 quickly changed the name of Atari 2600 system to become the Channel F. However , both systems were now in the midst of a vicious round of price-cutting : Pong clones that had been made obsolete by these newer and more powerful machines were sold off to discounters for ever-lower prices .
Soon many of the clone companies were out of business , and both Fairchild and Atari Inc. were selling to a public that was completely burnt out on Pong .
Once the public realized it was possible to play video games other than Pong , and programmers learned how to push Atari 2600 hardware 's capabilities , the VCS gained popularity .
In 1980 , Atari 2600 was given a minor revision in which the left and right difficulty switches were moved to the back of the console , leaving four switches on the front .
The controllers were also a source of breakage because of the way Atari 2600 could be gripped by a player holding Atari 2600 with Atari 2600 fist , allowing players to get carried away and over control , which was less likely with other systems released at the time , such as the Odyssey 2 , which had controllers that were nearly half Atari 2600 size .
A `` Heavy Sixer '' model in 1977 , the Rev. B `` 4 switch '' model in 1980 , and the US version of the Atari 2800 branded as the Sears Video Arcade II in 1983 .
However , Atari 2600 spent much of Atari 2600 R&D budget on projects that seemed rather out of place at a video game ( or even home computer ) company ; many of these projects never saw the light of day .
Warner was more than happy anyway , as Atari 2600 seemed to have no end to the sales of the 2600 , and Atari Inc. was responsible for over half of the company 's income .
The programmers of many of Atari Inc. 's biggest hits grew disgruntled with the company for not crediting game developers and many left the company and formed their own independent software companies .
The most prominent and longest-lasting of these third-party developers was Activision , founded in 1980 , whose titles quickly became more popular than those of Atari Inc. Atari 2600 .
Atari Inc. attempted to block third-party development for the 2600 in court but failed , and soon other publishers , such as Imagic and Coleco , entered the market .
The most notorious of these , Custer 's Revenge , caused a large number of protests from women 's and Native American groups because Atari 2600 depicts General George Armstrong Custer raping a bound Native American woman .
Atari Inc. continued to scoop up licenses during the shelf life of the 2600 , the most prominent of which included Pac-Man and E.T. Public disappointment with these two titles and the market saturation of poor third-party titles are cited as big reasons for the video game crash of 1983 .
However , two Atari published titles , E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial and Pac-Man , are frequently blamed for contributing to the video game crash of 1983 .
Atari started work on a replacement to the 2600 , called the Atari 3200 , with codenames including Super Stella , Sylvia , and PAM ( a note attached reads `` Super Stella : Multipurpose '' ) .
The console and Atari 2600 old and new games are very popular with collectors because of Atari 2600 significant impact on video game and consumer electronics history and also due to Atari 2600 nostalgic value for many people , along with a number of games that are still considered highly playable .
The javatari emulator has a multiplayer mode that allows two users play as Player1 and Player2 , as if Atari 2600 were playing on the same console .
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a mental disorder characterized by a breakdown of thought processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses .
In one uncommon subtype , the person may be largely mute , remain motionless in bizarre postures , or exhibit purposeless agitation , all signs of catatonia .
Evidence supports a link between earlier onset of psychotic illness and cannabis use ; alcohol use is not associated with an earlier onset of psychosis .
A number of attempts have been made to explain the link between altered brain function and schizophrenia .
Schizophrenia is associated with subtle differences in brain structures , found in 40 to 50 % of cases , and in brain chemistry during acute psychotic states .
Reductions in brain volume , smaller than those found in Alzheimer 's disease , have been reported in areas of the frontal cortex and temporal lobes .
Hospitalization may occur for severe episodes either voluntarily or ( if mental health legislation allows Schizophrenia ) involuntarily .
Community support services including drop-in centers , visits by members of a community mental health team , supported employment and support groups are common .
There is little evidence regarding benefits from Schizophrenia use beyond two or three years .
The choice of which antipsychotic to use is based on benefits , risks , and costs .
Clozapine is an effective treatment for those who respond poorly to other drugs ( `` treatment-resistant '' or `` refractory '' schizophrenia ) , but Schizophrenia has the potentially serious side effect of agranulocytosis ( lowered white blood cell count ) in less than 4 % of patients .
Some atypicals such as quetiapine and risperidone are associated with a higher risk of death compared to the typical antipsychotic perphenazine , while clozapine is associated with the lowest risk of death .
A detailed case report in 1797 concerning James Tilly Matthews , and accounts by Phillipe Pinel published in 1809 , are often regarded as the earliest cases of the illness in the medical and psychiatric literature .
The Latinized term dementia praecox was first used by German alienist Heinrich Schule in 1886 and then in 1891 by Arnold Pick in a case report of Schizophrenia .
American and British misreadings of Bleuler , which still persist , have led to the inaccurate claim that he described Schizophrenia main symptoms as 4 As : flattened Affect , Autism , impaired Association of ideas and Ambivalence .
This was partly due to looser diagnostic criteria in the US , which used the DSM-II manual , contrasting with Europe and its ICD-9 .
David Rosenhan 's 1972 study , published in the journal Science under the title `` On being sane in insane places '' , concluded that the diagnosis of schizophrenia in the US was often subjective and unreliable .
Although some people diagnosed with schizophrenia may hear voices and may experience the voices as distinct personalities , schizophrenia does not involve a person changing among distinct multiple personalities .
The book and film A Beautiful Mind chronicles the life of John Forbes Nash , a Nobel Prize-winning mathematician who was diagnosed with schizophrenia .
Marie-Sophie Germain ( April 1 , 1776 -- June 27 , 1831 ) was a French mathematician , physicist , and philosopher .
The object of the competition , as stated by the Academy , was `` to give the mathematical theory of the vibration of an elastic surface and to compare the theory to experimental evidence '' .
Two of Sophie Germain philosophical works , Pensées diverses and Considérations générales sur l'état des sciences et des lettres , aux différentes époques de leur culture , were published , both posthumously .
In Considérations , the work admired by Comte , Sophie argues that there are no differences between the sciences and the humanities .
H. J. Mozans , whose biography of Sophie Germain `` is inaccurate and the notes and bibliography are unreliable '' , but is nevertheless interesting , quotes the mathematician Claude-Louis Navier as saying , `` it is a work which few men are able to read and which only one woman was able to write '' .
Concerning Sophie Germain early work in number theory , J. H. Sampson , author of `` Sophie Germain and the Theory of Numbers , '' states , `` Sophie Germain was clever with formal algebraic manipulations ; but there is little evidence that Sophie Germain really understood the Disquisitiones , and Sophie Germain work of that period that has come down to us seems to touch only on rather superficial matters '' .
Louis Bucciarelli and Nancy Dworsky , Germain 's biographers , summarize as follows : `` All the evidence argues that Sophie Germain had a mathematical brilliance that never reached fruition due to a lack of rigorous training available only to men '' .
Sophie Germain was also mentioned in John Madden 's 2005 movie `` Proof '' in a conversation between Gwyneth Paltrow and Jake Gyllenhaal 's characters .
In the fictional work `` The Last Theorem '' by Arthur C. Clarke and Frederik Pohl , Sophie Germain was credited with inspiring Ranjit Subramanian to solve Fermat 's Last Theorem .
The description is usually limited to revolvers , pistols , submachine guns , carbines , assault rifles , battle rifles , sniper rifles , squad automatic weapons , light machine guns ) , and sometimes hand grenades .
The term which encompasses both , SALW ( Small arms and Light Weapons ) , is used by some organizations working to limit arms proliferation .
The word is derived from Late Latin succuba `` strumpet '' ( from succubare `` to lie under '' , from sub - `` under '' and cubare `` to lie '' ) , used to describe the supernatural being as well .
Throughout history , priests and rabbis including Hanina Ben Dosa and Abaye , tried to curb the power of succubi over humans .
In the novel Breaking Dawn by Stephenie Meyer , the three original sisters of the Denali coven ( Tanya , Kate , and Irina ) were revealed to be the originators of the myth of the succubus , as Succubus would seduce men and drain them of blood following intercourse .
Suzanne Nadine Vega ( born July 11 , 1959 ) is an American songwriter and singer known for Suzanne Vega eclectic folk-inspired music .
Two of Vega 's songs ( both from Suzanne Vega second album Solitude Standing , 1987 ) reached the top 10 of various international chart listings : `` Luka '' and `` Tom 's Diner '' .
Suzanne Vega stepfather , Ed Vega , also known as Edgardo Vega Yunque , was a writer and teacher from Puerto Rico .
Suzanne Vega next effort , Solitude Standing ( 1987 ) , garnered critical and commercial success including the hit single `` Luka '' , an international success .
`` Luka '' is written about , and from the point of view of , an abused child -- at the time an uncommon subject for a pop hit .
`` Tom 's Diner '' takes place in Tom 's Restaurant at 112th Street and Broadway in New York City .
Suzanne Vega wrote both melody and lyrics for Suzanne Vega song , which is titled `` The Man Who Played God '' , inspired by a biography of Pablo Picasso .
Volumes 2 , 3 and 4 of the `` Close-Up '' albums included previously unrecorded material ; Volumes 2 and 3 each included one new collaboratively written song , while Volume 4 included three songs that Suzanne Vega had written years earlier , but had not previously gotten around to recording .
In the play , which premiered in 2011 , Suzanne Vega alternates between monologue and songs .
The theory of finite semigroups has been of particular importance in theoretical computer science since the 1950s because of the natural link between finite Semigroup and finite automata .
Green 's relations , a set of five equivalence relations that characterise the elements in terms of the principal ideals Semigroup generate , are important tools for analysing the ideals of a semigroup and related notions of structure .
Two semigroups S and T are said to be isomorphic if there is a bijection f : S ↔ T with the property that , for any elements a , b in S , f ( ab ) = f ( a ) f ( b ) .
That is , a subset that is an equivalence relation and and implies for every in S. Like any equivalence relation , a semigroup congruence induces congruence classes Because is a congruence , the set of all congruence classes of forms Semigroup with , called the quotient semigroup or factor semigroup , and denoted .
The mapping is a Semigroup homomorphism , called the quotient map , canonical surjection or projection ; if S is a monoid then quotient semigroup is a monoid with identity .
By Zorn 's lemma , this is equivalent to saying that the ascending chain condition holds : there is no infinite strictly ascending chain of congruences on S. Every ideal I of Semigroup induces a subsemigroup , the Rees factor semigroup via the congruence x ρ y ⇔ either x = y or both x and y are in I .
For any subset A of S there is a smallest subsemigroup T of S which contains A , and we say that A generates T .
The group of fractions of a semigroup S is the group G = G ( S ) generated by the elements of S as generators and all equations xy = z which hold true in S as relations .
If the associativity axiom of Semigroup is dropped , the result is a magma , which is nothing more than a set M equipped with a binary operation M & times ; M → M. Generalizing in a different direction , an n-ary semigroup ( also n-semigroup , polyadic semigroup or multiary semigroup ) is a generalization of a semigroup to a set G with a n-ary operation instead of a binary operation .
Being behind the technological curve was not entirely surprising ; the chipset used in the 400 and 800 was designed because they were aware the 2600 would be obsolete by the 1980 time frame .
The controller prototypes used in the electrical development lab used a yoke and gimbal mechanism that came from an RC airplane controller kit .
Atari Inc. released the Pro-Line Trak-Ball controller for the system , which was used primarily for gaming titles such as Centipede or Missile Command .
Atari 5200 pack-in game , Super Breakout , was particularly criticized for not doing enough to demonstrate the system 's capabilities , and this gave the ColecoVision a significant advantage when Atari 5200 pack-in , Donkey Kong , delivered a more authentic arcade experience than any previous game cartridge .
Super Mario Kart was re-released on the Wii 's Virtual Console in Japan on June 9 , 2009 , North America on November 23 , 2009 , and in Europe on April 2 , 2010 .
During the races , offensive and speed boosting power-ups can be used to gain an advantage .
Super Mario Kart has been ranked among the best games of all time by several organizations including Edge , IGN , The Age and GameSpot , while Guinness World Records has named Super Mario Kart as the top console game ever .
During a race , the player 's viewpoint is from behind his or her kart .
During races , computer-controlled characters have special items , or superpowers , which they are able to use .
Super Mario Kart was the first game to feature playable characters from the Mario series other than Mario or Luigi in Super Mario Kart and the selection and different attributes of the characters is regarded as one of the game 's strengths , IGN describing a well-balanced `` all-star cast '' .
Computer and Video Games suggest that this initial emphasis on creating a two player experience is the reason for Super Mario Kart horizontal split-screen during single player modes .
Aggregate scoring sites GameRankings and MobyGames both give an average of more than 90 percent while GameStats and TopTenReviews give averages of over 80 percent .
Another aspect of the game to have been praised is Super Mario Kart gameplay , which Thunderbolt has described as the `` deepest and most addictive ... to be found on the SNES console '' .
Super Mario Kart was re-released on the Japanese Virtual Console on June 9 , 2009 , and later in North America on November 23 , 2009 .
Seymour Papert ( born February 29 , 1928 ) is an MIT mathematician , Seymour Papert , and educator .
Seymour Papert attended the University of the Witwatersrand , receiving a B.A. in 1949 and a PhD in mathematics in 1952 .
While attending the 17th ICMI Study conference in Hanoi , Papert ( then aged 78 ) was crossing a road near Seymour Papert hotel , on Tuesday December 5 , 2006 , with Seymour Papert colleague and former student , Uri Wilensky .
In the case of text search engines , the search query is typically expressed as a set of words that identify the desired concept that one or more documents may contain .
Boolean search engines typically only return items which match exactly without regard to order , although the term boolean search engine may simply refer to the use of boolean-style syntax ( the use of operators AND , OR , NOT , and XOR ) in a probabilistic context .
real-time search engines ) may collect and assess items at the time of the search query , dynamically considering additional items based on the contents of a starting item ( known as a seed , or seed URL in the case of an Internet crawler ) .
Material that is hard appears more often and material that is easy less often , with difficulty defined according to the ease with which the user is able to produce a correct response .
SuperMemo ( from `` Super Memory '' ) is a learning method and software package developed by SuperMemo World and SuperMemo R&D with Piotr Wozniak in Poland from 1985 to the present .
The database is either a pre-made collection , self-made , or in some cases both through Merging .
Samuel Pepys FRS , MP , JP , was an English naval administrator and Member of Parliament who is now most famous for the diary Samuel Pepys kept for a decade while still a relatively young man .
Later that year , or in early 1655 , Samuel Pepys entered the household of another of Samuel Pepys father 's cousins , Sir Edward Montagu , who would later be made 1st Earl of Sandwich .
Samuel Pepys also married the fourteen-year-old Elisabeth de St Michel , a descendant of French Huguenot immigrants , first in a religious ceremony , on 10 October 1655 , and later in a civil ceremony , on 1 December 1655 , at St Margaret 's , Westminster .
In April and May of that year -- at this time , Samuel Pepys was encountering problems with Samuel Pepys wife -- Samuel Pepys accompanied Montagu 's fleet to the Netherlands to bring Charles II back from exile .
Learning arithmetic from a private tutor , and using models of ships to make up for Samuel Pepys lack of first-hand nautical experience , Pepys came to play a significant role in the board 's activities .
Samuel Pepys often laments over how Samuel Pepys `` lost Samuel Pepys labour '' having gone to some appointment at a coffee house or tavern , there to discover that the person Samuel Pepys was seeking was not within .
In relation to the Plague and Fire , C. S. Knighton has written : `` From its reporting of these two disasters to the metropolis in which Samuel Pepys thrived , Pepys 's diary has become a national monument '' .
While the Dutch raid was a major concern in itself , Pepys was personally placed under a different kind of pressure : the Navy Board , and Samuel Pepys role as Clerk of the Acts , came under scrutiny from the public and from parliament .
On 7 September Samuel Pepys went to Paul 's Wharf and saw the ruins of St Paul 's cathedral , of Samuel Pepys old school , of Samuel Pepys father 's house , and of the house in which Samuel Pepys had had Samuel Pepys stone removed .
Samuel Pepys also taught Samuel Pepys wife to sing , and paid for dancing lessons for her ( although these stopped when Samuel Pepys became jealous of the dancing master ) .
In Samuel Pepys last entry , dated 31 May 1669 , Samuel Pepys reluctantly concluded that , for the sake of Samuel Pepys eyes , Samuel Pepys should completely stop writing and , from then on , only dictate to Samuel Pepys clerks which meant Samuel Pepys could no longer keep Samuel Pepys diary .
Samuel Pepys was elected along with Sir Anthony Deane , a Harwich alderman and leading naval architect , to whom Pepys had been patron since 1662 .
In January 1689 , Samuel Pepys was defeated in the parliamentary election at Harwich ; in February , one week after the accession of William and Mary , Samuel Pepys resigned Samuel Pepys secretaryship .
There is a probability problem , called the `` Newton -- Samuel Pepys problem '' , that arose out of correspondence between Newton and Samuel Pepys about whether one is more likely to roll at least one six with six dice or at least two sixes with twelve dice .
Henry B. Wheatley , drawing on both Samuel Pepys predecessors , produced a new edition in 1893 -- 1899 , revised in 1926 , with extensive notes and an index .
On 1 January 2003 Phil Gyford started a weblog , pepysdiary.com that serialised the diary one day each evening together with annotations from public and experts alike .
Samuel Pepys is an English naval administrator and Member of Parliament who is now most famous for the diary he kept for a decade while still a relatively young man .
The word `` synapse '' comes from `` synaptein '' , which Sir Charles Scott Sherrington and colleagues coined from the Greek `` syn - '' ( `` together '' ) and `` haptein '' ( `` to clasp '' ) .
Chemical synapse , or synaptic bouton , is a specialized area within the axon of the presynaptic cell that contains neurotransmitters enclosed in small membrane-bound spheres called synaptic vesicles .
As a whole , the protein complex or structure that mediates the docking and fusion of Chemical synapse vesicles is called the active zone .
Whether Chemical synapse is excitatory or inhibitory depends on what type ( s ) of ion channel conduct the Chemical synapse current ( s ) , which in turn is a function of the type of receptors and neurotransmitter employed at Chemical synapse .
Homosynaptic Plasticity ( or also homotropic modulation ) is a change in the synaptic strength that results from the history of activity at a particular synapse .
Heterosynaptic Plasticity ( or also heterotropic modulation ) is a change in synaptic strength that results from the activity of other neurons .
An electrical synapse is an electrically conductive link between two abutting neurons that is formed at a narrow gap between the pre - and Chemical synapse cells , known as a gap junction .
While Chemical synapse are found between both excitatory and inhibitory neurons , electrical synapses are most commonly found between smaller local inhibitory neurons .
While the 320 pixel modes theoretically enable the 7800 to create games at higher resolution than the 256 pixel wide graphics found in the Nintendo Entertainment System and Sega Master System , the intense processing demands of MARIA typically meant that programmers created their games using the lower 160 pixel modes .
The MARIA 's approach had advantages and disadvantages when Atari 7800 came to generating graphics in software during the lifespan of the 7800 .
Ballblazer , released in 1987 , uses the POKEY to generate all music and sound effects .
The most substantial difference , however , is a graphics architecture which differs markedly from either the Atari 2600 VCS or Atari 's 8-bit line of computers .
Many competing theories have been made to discover the possible connections between Sleep and learning in humans .
One theory is that sleep consolidates and optimizes the layout of memories , though recent evidence suggests this may be restricted to implicit procedural memories .
As a result , students that should be getting between 8.5 and 9.25 hours of sleep are getting only 7 hours .
As a result of studies showing the effects of sleep deprivation on grades , and the different sleep patterns for teenagers , a school in New Zealand , changed Sleep and learning start time to 10:30 a.m. , in 2006 , to allow students to keep to a schedule that allowed more sleep .
`` Systematics biology '' and `` taxonomy '' ( terms that are often confused and used interchangeably ) were defined in relationship to one another by Michener et al.
Systematics biology ( hereafter called simply Systematics ) is the field that ( a ) provides scientific names for organisms , ( b ) describes them , ( c ) preserves collections of them , ( d ) provides classifications for the organisms , keys for their identification , and data on their distributions , ( e ) investigates their evolutionary histories , and ( f ) considers their environmental adaptations .
Europeans tend to use the terms Systematics and `` biosystematics '' for the field of the study of biodiversity as a whole , whereas North Americans tend to use `` taxonomy '' more frequently .
However , only the ProController , the Atari Jaguar CD drive , and the JagLink ( a simple two-console networking device ) reached retail shelves .
In the United Kingdom in 2001 , a deal was struck between Telegames and retailer Game to bring the Jaguar to Game 's retail outlets .
The only games to support this add-on are DOOM , BattleSphere , and AirCars .
The ICD CatBox features a polished steel casing and red LEDs in Atari Jaguar eyes on the logo that indicate communications activity .
Today , as with many older consoles , there is still a small group of devoted fans , creating and selling games for the system .
Atari Inc. had previously worked on several other handheld projects including the Breakout , Space Invaders , and the Atari Cosmos portable/tabletop console .
In 1991 , Atari Corp. relaunched Atari Lynx with a new marketing campaign , new packaging , slightly improved hardware , better battery life and a new sleek look .
This style , called `` tabbed '' or `` ridged '' , used the same basic design as the original cartridges with the addition of two small tabs on the cartridge 's underside to aid in removal .
However , the Game Gear was backed up by significantly more titles and consequently the market became dominated by Nintendo .
As Nintendo 's Super Nintendo and Sega 's Mega Drive/Genesis filled retailers ' shelves , Atari Corp. refocused its efforts on Atari Lynx Jaguar console .
Sleep proceeds in cycles of REM and NREM , usually four or five of them per night , the order normally being N1 → N2 → N3 → N2 → REM .
Measurements taken include EEG of brain waves , electrooculography ( EOG ) of eye movements , and electromyography ( EMG ) of skeletal muscle activity .
Rapid eye movement sleep , or REM sleep ( also known as paradoxical sleep ) , accounts for 20 -- 25 % of total sleep time in most human adults .
A person who regularly awakens at an early hour will generally not be able to sleep much later than his or her normal waking time , even if moderately sleep-deprived .
Dysregulation found on EEG includes disturbances in sleep continuity , decreased delta sleep and altered REM patterns with regard to latency , distribution across the night and density of eye movements .
Nevertheless , epidemiological studies on the relations between cardiovascular health and siestas have led to conflicting conclusions , possibly because of poor control of moderator variables , such as physical activity .
Dr. Zaregarizi and his team have concluded that the acute time of falling asleep was when beneficial cardiovascular changes take place .
Dr. Zaregarizi assessed cardiovascular function ( BP , heart rate , and measurements of blood vessel dilation ) while nine healthy volunteers , 34 years of age on average , spent an hour standing quietly , reclining at rest but not Sleep , or reclining to nap .
These findings also show that the greatest decline in BP occurs between lights-off and onset of daytime sleep Sleep .
Scientists do not agree on how much sleep debt it is possible to accumulate ; whether Sleep is accumulated against an individual 's average sleep or some other benchmark ; nor on whether the prevalence of sleep debt among adults has changed appreciably in the industrialized world in recent decades .
Outside of a few basal animals that have no brain or a very simple one , no animals have been found to date that satisfy any of these criteria .
During eight hours ' sleep , Van Cauter , Leproult , and Plat found that the men with a high percentage of SWS ( average 24 % ) also had high growth hormone secretion , while subjects with a low percentage of SWS ( average 9 % ) had low growth hormone secretion .
The duration of sleep among species is , in general , inversely related to animal size and directly related to basal metabolic rate .
In a study conducted by Turner , Drummond , Salamat , and Brown ( 2007 ) , working memory was shown to be affected by sleep deprivation .
Harvard sleep researchers Saper and Stickgold point out that an essential part of memory and learning consists of nerve cell dendrites ' sending of information to the cell body to be organized into new neuronal connections .
Obstructive sleep apnea is a condition in which major pauses in breathing occur during sleep , disrupting the normal progression of sleep and often causing other more severe health problems .
Fatal familial insomnia , or FFI , is an extremely rare genetic disease with no known treatment or cure , is characterized by increasing insomnia as one of Sleep symptoms ; ultimately sufferers of the disease stop sleeping entirely , before dying of the disease .
The most striking differences are between societies that have plentiful sources of artificial light and ones that do not .
The boundaries between Sleep and waking are blurred in these societies .
Some societies display a fragmented sleep pattern in which people sleep at all times of the day and night for shorter periods .
In many nomadic or hunter-gatherer societies , people will sleep on and off throughout the day or night depending on what is happening .
Ekrich attributes the change to increases in `` street lighting , domestic lighting and a surge in coffee houses , '' which slowly made nighttime a legitimate time for activity , decreasing the time available for rest .
In these cases , sleep may be defined using behavioral characteristics such as minimal movement , postures typical for the species , and reduced responsiveness to external stimulation .
Thus , dolphins , whales , and seals engage in unihemispheric sleep , which allows one brain hemisphere to remain fully functional , while the other goes to sleep .
SOD1 and SOD3 contain copper and zinc , whereas SOD2 , the mitochondrial enzyme , has manganese in Superoxide dismutase reactive centre .
SODs catalyze the production of O2 and H2O2 from superoxide ( O2 − ) , which results in less harmful reactants .
Moreover , superoxide dismutase has the largest kcat/KM ( an approximation of catalytic efficiency ) of any known enzyme ( ~ 7 x 109 M − 1s − 1 ) , this reaction being only limited by the frequency of collision between Superoxide dismutase and superoxide .
Even at the subnanomolar concentrations achieved by the high concentrations of SOD within cells , superoxide inactivates the citric acid cycle enzyme aconitase , can poison energy metabolism , and releases potentially toxic iron .
SOD2 knockout or null mutations cause growth inhibition on respiratory carbon sources in addition to decreased post-diauxic lifespan .
In other studies , diminished SOD3 activity was linked to lung diseases such as Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( ARDS ) or Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
For example , ( M , A , R , Y ) is a sequence of letters with the letter 'M ' first and ` Y ' last .
For Sequence Other important examples of Sequence include ones made up of rational numbers , real numbers , and complex numbers .
A sequence that is infinite in both directions -- Sequence has neither a first nor a final element-is called a bi-infinite sequence , two-way infinite sequence , or doubly infinite sequence .
In less words , this means an ≤ M for all n greater than N for some pair M and N. Any such M is called an upper bound .
Important results for convergence and limits of ( one-sided ) sequences of real numbers include the following .
The notion of Sequence is important in the study of sequences in metric spaces , and , in particular , in real analysis .
One particularly important result in real analysis is Cauchy characterization of convergence for sequences : A sequence is convergent if and only if Sequence is Cauchy .
Sequence is an important concept for studying functions and , in topology , topological spaces .
Avoidance of verbal and physical violence is also a part of this principle , although ahimsa recognizes self-defense when necessary , as a sign of a strong spirit .
Sri Aurobindo criticized the Gandhian concept of ahimsa as unrealistic and not universally applicable ; he adopted a pragmatic non-pacifist position , saying that the justification of violence depends on the specific circumstances of the given situation .
When Mahavira revived and reorganized the Jain movement in the 6th or 5th century BCE , ahimsa was already an established , strictly observed rule .
For the mobile beings , Ahimsa distinguish between one-sensed , two-sensed , three-sensed , four-sensed and five-sensed ones ; a one-sensed animal has touch as Ahimsa only sensory modality .
In Pali texts , injunctions to abstain from violence and involvement with military affairs are directed at members of the sangha ; later Mahayana texts , which often generalize monastic norms to laity , require this of lay people as well .
To put Ahimsa differently , the Buddha made a distinction between Principle and Rule .
`` Living with corruption '' , Sorious Samura latest documentary shown on CNN , describes the shocking reality of how corruption is spread across society both in Sierra Leone and Kenya , affecting mostly the poor .
A sandpit ( Commonwealth countries ) or sandbox ( US/Canada ) is a low , wide container or shallow depression filled with sand in which children can play .
Stephen Gary `` Steve '' Wozniak ( born August 11 , 1950 ) , known as Woz , is an American inventor , computer engineer and programmer who co-founded Apple Computer ( now Apple Inc .
The name on Wozniak 's birth certificate is `` Stephan Gary Wozniak '' , but Steve 's mother said that she intended it to be spelled `` Stephen '' , and `` Stephen '' is what Steve Wozniak uses .
Jobs and Steve Wozniak sold their first 50 system boards to Paul Terrell , who was starting a new computer shop , called the Byte Shop , in Mountain View , California .
( Unite Us In Song ) , an organization Wozniak formed to organize the two US Festivals , is now primarily tasked with supporting Steve Wozniak educational and philanthropic projects .
In 1986 , Wozniak lent Steve Wozniak name to the Stephen G. Wozniak Achievement Awards ( referred to as Wozzie Awards ) , which Steve Wozniak presented to six Bay Area high school and college students for their innovative use of computers in the fields of business , art and music .
Despite Wozniak and Smirnoff receiving 10 combined points from the three judges out of 30 , the lowest score of the evening , Steve Wozniak remained in the competition .
Annals of Mathematics is the earliest American mathematics journal to be published continuously for more than a year or two .
Following the downfall of Henry the Lion and the subsequent split of the Saxons tribal duchy into several territories , the name of the Saxons duchy was transferred to the lands of the Ascanian family .
In Estonian saks means a nobleman or , colloquially , a wealthy or powerful person : as a result of the Northern Crusades in the Middle Ages and lasting until the 20th century , Estonia 's upper class had been mostly of German origin .
Some copies of this text mention a tribe called Saxones in the area to the north of the lower River Elbe , thought to derive from the word sax or stone knife .
The dukes of Saxony became kings ( Henry I , the Fowler , 919 ) and later the first emperors ( Henry 's son , Otto I , the Great ) of Germany during the 10th century , but they lost this position in 1024 .
During the High Middle Ages , under the Salian emperors and , later , under the Teutonic Knights , German settlers moved east of the River Saale into the area of a western Slavic tribe , the Sorbs .
Different Bessin toponyms were identified as typically Saxons , ex : Cottun in the Bessin and in the Boulonnais , we obtain a better result .
Furniture and other gravegoods , as well as the human remains revealed a group of people buried in the 4th and 5th centuries AD .
Hengist , according to Bede , manipulated Vortigern into granting more land and allowing for more settlers to come in , paving the way for the Germanic settlement of Britain .
Bede , a Northumbrian , writing around the year 730 , remarks that `` the old ( that is , the continental ) Saxons have no king , but they are governed by several ealdormen ( or satrapa ) who , during war , cast lots for leadership but who , in time of peace , are equal in power '' .
The caste structure was rigid ; in the Saxons language the three castes , excluding slaves , were called the edhilingui ( related to the term aetheling ) , frilingi , and lazzi .
The old Saxon system of Abgabengrundherrschaft , lordship based on dues and taxes , was replaced by a form of feudalism based on service and labour , personal relationships , and oaths .
The Heliand , a verse epic of the life of Christ in a Germanic setting , and Genesis , another epic retelling of the events of the first book of the Bible , were commissioned in the early 9th century by Louis to disseminate scriptural knowledge to the masses .
A council of Tours in 813 and then a synod of Mainz in 848 both declared that homilies ought to be preached in the vernacular .
The earliest preserved text in the Saxons language is a baptismal vow from the late 8th or early 9th centuries ; the vernacular was used extensively in an effort to Christianise the lowest castes of Saxons society .
where A Superparamagnetism system can be measured with AC susceptibility measurements , where an applied magnetic field varies in time , and the magnetic response of the system is measured .
Any topological space which is Separable space finite or countably infinite is separable , for the whole space is a countable dense subset of Separable space .
Conversely , a metrizable space is separable if and only if Separable space is second countable , which is the case if and only if Separable space is Lindelöf .
For this closure is characterized in terms of limits of filter bases : if Y is a subset of X and z is a point of X , then z is in the closure of Y if and only if there exists a filter base B consisting of subsets of Y which converges to z .
Separability is especially important in numerical analysis and constructive mathematics , since many theorems that can be proved for nonseparable spaces have constructive proofs only for separable spaces .
Schrödinger and Einstein exchanged letters about Einstein 's EPR article , in the course of which Einstein pointed out that the state of an unstable keg of gunpowder will , after a while , contain a superposition of both exploded and unexploded states .
According to Schrödinger , the Copenhagen interpretation implies that Schrödinger's cat remains both alive and dead ( to the universe outside the box ) until the box is opened .
This experiment makes apparent the fact that the nature of measurement , or observation , is not well-defined in this interpretation .
Schrödinger's cat can be interpreted to mean that while the box is closed , the system simultaneously exists in a superposition of the states `` decayed nucleus/dead cat '' and `` undecayed nucleus/living cat , '' and that only when the box is opened and an observation performed does the wave function collapse into one of the two states .
When opening the box , the observer becomes entangled with Schrödinger's cat , so `` observer states '' corresponding to the cat 's being alive and dead are formed ; each observer state is entangled or linked with Schrödinger's cat so that the `` observation of Schrödinger's cat state '' and the `` cat 's state '' correspond with each other .
The issue here is , does the wave function `` collapse '' when the first observer opens the box , or only when the second observer is informed of the first observer 's observations ?
A sphere ( from Greek -- sphaira , `` globe , ball '' ) is a perfectly round geometrical and circular object in three-dimensional space , such as the shape of a round ball .
In mathematics , a distinction is made between the sphere ( a two-dimensional closed surface embedded in three-dimensional Euclidean space ) and the ball , a three-dimensional shape which includes the interior of Sphere .
In 3 dimensions , the volume inside a sphere ( that is , the volume of a ball ) is derived to be where r is the radius of Sphere and π is the constant pi .
This equation reflects the fact that the position and velocity vectors of a point traveling on Sphere are always orthogonal to each other .
The sphere has the smallest surface area among all surfaces enclosing a given volume and Sphere encloses the largest volume among all closed surfaces with a given surface area .
If Sphere is replaced by an ellipse , and rotated about the major axis , Sphere becomes a prolate spheroid , rotated about the minor axis , an oblate spheroid .
If two intersecting planes pass through Sphere center , then Sphere will subdivide the sphere into four lunes or biangles , the vertices of which all coincide with the antipodal points lying on the line of intersection of the planes .
Another expression for the surface area is and Sphere is the surface area times or More generally , in a metric space ( E , d ) , the sphere of center x and radius is the set of points y such that .
During this period , in 1943 , Andrei Sakharov married Klavdia Alekseyevna Vikhireva , with whom Andrei Sakharov raised two daughters and a son before she died in 1969 .
Sakharov believed that in this `` tragic confrontation of two outstanding people , '' both deserved respect , because `` each of them was certain Andrei Sakharov had right on Andrei Sakharov side and was morally obligated to go to the end in the name of truth '' .
In May 1968 Andrei Sakharov completed an essay , `` Reflections on Progress , Peaceful Coexistence , and Intellectual Freedom '' , where the anti-ballistic missile defense is described as a major threat of world nuclear war .
Then Andrei Sakharov came , in Andrei Sakharov words , to `` the theory of symmetry : all governments and regimes to a first approximation are bad , all peoples are oppressed , and all are threatened by common dangers '' .
In a letter written from Andrei Sakharov exile , Andrei Sakharov cheered up a fellow physicist and human rights activist with the words : `` Fortunately , the future is unpredictable and also -- because of quantum effects -- uncertain '' .
Between 1980 and 1986 , Andrei Sakharov was kept under tight Soviet police surveillance .
On December 19 , 1986 , Mikhail Gorbachev , who had initiated the policies of perestroika and glasnost , called Sakharov to tell Andrei Sakharov that Andrei Sakharov and Andrei Sakharov wife may return to Moscow .
Sápmi (area) is the name in North Sami , while the Julev Sami name is Sábme and the South Sami name is Saemie .
Sápmi (area) ( and corresponding terms in other Sami languages ) refers to both the Sami land and the Sami people .
Sápmi (area) contains valuable mineral deposits , particularly iron ore in Sweden , copper in Norway , and nickel and apatite in Russia .
The ocean floor to the north and west of Sápmi (area) has great deposits of oil and gas .
While being the most heavily populated part of Sápmi (area) , this is also the region where the indigenous population and their culture is weakest .
Central Sápmi (area) consists of the western part of Finland 's Sami Domicile Area , the parts of Norway north of the Saltfjellet mountains and areas on the Swedish side corresponding to this .
Central Sápmi (area) is the region where Sami culture is strongest , and home to North Sami - the most vital of the Sami languages .
The inner parts of Sápmi (area) are often referred to as Lapland or Lappi , a name deriving from a former name given to the Sami , which is today considered derogatory by many Sami .
Sápmi (area) is also found on the Russian side as Laplandija ( the name of a natural reservation ) and the Norwegian county of Finnmark is sometimes titled the `` Norwegian Lapland '' , especially by the travel industry .
Lappi - appears as a common component of place-names throughout central and southern Finland as well ; in many cases Sápmi (area) probably refers to earlier Sami presence , though in some cases the underlying meaning may be merely `` periphery '' or `` outlying district '' .
Sápmi (area) is the dominant language on the Russian side of the border , and also spoken by recently immigrated minority groups elsewhere in Sápmi .
The approximate number of people living in Sápmi (area) is about 2 million , though it is difficult to give the precise number of inhabitants since certain counties and provinces only include parts of Sápmi (area) .
About 850,000 people inhabit the Norwegian regions ( landsdeler ) North Norway ( fully within Sápmi (area) ) and Trøndelag ( mostly within Sápmi (area) ) .
Norway , Finland and Sweden all have Sami Parliaments that to varying degrees are involved in governing the region - though mostly they only have authority over the matters of the Sami citizens of the states in which they are situated .
This is the Sami Parliament with most influence over any part of Sápmi , as Sápmi (area) is involved in the autonomy established by the Finnmark Act.The parliament is situated in Kárášjohka and Sápmi (area) current President is Egil Olli from the Norwegian Labour Party .
In addition to the parliaments and their common council , there is a Saami Council based on Saami organizations .
This is also the part of Russia where the Sami population is most numerous and visible .
, is located in Sápmi (area) and has a special form of autonomy : 95 % ( about 46,000 km2 ) of the area is owned by the Finnmark Estate .
A similar solution to the Finnmark Estate , Hålogalandsallmenningen , has been proposed for Romsa county and its southern neighbour Nordlánda .
Nordland ( nor ) or Nordlánda ( n.sam - this name is not official ) covers a long strip of coast that includes both North Sami , Julev Sami , Bithun Sami and South Sami areas .
Sápmi (area) covers the interior majority of Västerbotten , which are Upmeje and South Sami regions .
The regions are governed by regional councils , which are forums of cooperation between the municipalities and not elected by direct popular vote ( except for one region , Kainuu , that holds such elections ) .
The British called the indigenous people the `` Eora '' , because being asked where they came from , these people would answer : `` Eora '' , meaning `` here '' , or `` from this place '' in their language .
In any event , the results were catastrophic for the Eora people and their kin and by the early 1800s the Aboriginal population of the Sydney basin `` had been reduced to only 10 percent of the 1788 estimate '' , or an estimated 500 to 1000 Aboriginal people between Broken Bay and Botany Bay .
During the 1970s and 1980s , Sydney central business district ( CBD ) , with a great number of financial institutions including the headquarters of the Reserve Bank , surpassed Melbourne as the nation 's financial capital .
The Hawkesbury sandstone is some 200 m thick , with shale lenses and fossil riverbeds dotted throughout Sydney .
However , a July 2008 fall of graupel , or soft hail , mistaken by many for snow , has raised the possibility that the 1836 event was not snow , either .
Many areas of the city bordering bushland have experienced bushfires , these tend to occur during the spring and summer .
Together with the commercial district of North Sydney , joined to the CBD by the Harbour Bridge , the most significant outer business districts are Parramatta in the central-west , Penrith in the west , Bondi Junction in the east , Liverpool in the southwest , Chatswood to the north , and Hurstville to the south .
Within the CBD are the Chinese Garden of Friendship , Sydney Park , Hyde Park , The Domain and the Royal Botanic Gardens .
The largest economic sectors in Sydney , as measured by the number of people employed , include property and business services , retail , manufacturing , and health and community services .
The Australian Securities Exchange and the Reserve Bank of Australia are located in Sydney , as are the headquarters of 90 banks and more than half of Australia 's top companies , and the regional headquarters for around 500 multinational corporations .
The Census also recorded that 1.1 % of Sydney population identified as being of indigenous origin , and 31.7 % were born overseas .
These include the Sydney Festival , Australia 's largest arts festival which is a celebration involving both indoor and free outdoor performances throughout January ; the Biennale of Sydney dedicated to international and Australian contemporary art ; the Big Day Out , a travelling rock-music festival which originated in Sydney ; the Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras along Oxford Street ; the Sydney Film Festival and many other smaller film festivals such as the short film Tropfest and Flickerfest .
A survey based on tracking the frequency of words and phrases in the media , cited Sydney as number 9 on a list of the world 's top fashion cities in 2009 .
Most international designers have a major presence in Sydney and Australia 's Next Top Model is one of the most watched shows on national television .
The National Institute of Dramatic Art , based in Kensington , boasts internationally famous alumni such as Mel Gibson , Judy Davis , Baz Luhrmann and Cate Blanchett .
The Great Gatsby , the most recent Hollywood production shot in Sydney , is expected to earn the New South Wales economy $ 120 million , with the shoot estimated to last seventeen weeks and another thirty weeks to be spent on post-production .
The Ashes Series between Australia and England is widely popular among the people .
The sport 's premier competition , the Australian Football League , includes two teams based in Sydney -- the Sydney Swans and the Greater Western Sydney Giants .
The University of Sydney , established in 1850 , is Australia 's oldest university and the largest in Sydney .
There are four multi-campus government-funded Technical and Further Education ( TAFE ) institutes in Sydney , which provide vocational training at a tertiary level : the Sydney Institute of Technology , Northern Sydney Institute of TAFE , Western Sydney Institute of TAFE and South Western Sydney Institute of TAFE .
A third network operates across the public health services provided in three Sydney facilities operated by St Vincent 's Health : these include St Vincent 's Hospital and the Sacred Heart Hospice at Darlinghurst and St Joseph 's at Auburn .
Two distributors supply electricity to Sydney : Ausgrid ( previously Energy Australia ) , and Endeavour Energy ( previously Integral Energy ) .
Sword is a bladed weapon ( Sword ) used primarily for cutting or thrusting .
Sword was not until the development of stronger alloys such as steel , and improved heat treatment processes that longswords became practical for combat .
Also unique for Chinese bronzes is the consistent use of high tin bronze ( 17 -- 21 % tin ) which is very hard and breaks if stressed too far , whereas other cultures preferred lower tin bronze ( usually 10 % ) , which bends if stressed too far .
In South Asia earliest available Bronze age swords of copper were discovered in the Harappan sites , in present-day Pakistan , and date back to 2300 BC .
The use of Sword , an honourable weapon , was regarded in Europe since Roman times as a privilege reserved for the nobility and the upper classes .
The design was not uniform and in fact identification is made more on the nature of the scabbard than the weapon Sword ; the scabbard usually has a large , decorative mount allowing Sword to be suspended from a belt on the wearer 's right side .
Sword was during the 14th century , with the growing use of more advanced armour , that the Hand and a half sword , also known as a `` bastard sword '' , came into being .
The Japanese katana reached the height of Sword development in the 15th and 16th centuries , when samurai increasingly found a need for a sword to use in closer quarters , leading to the creation of the modern katana .
From around 1300 to 1500 , in concert with improved armour , innovative sword designs evolved more and more rapidly .
By 1400 , this type of sword , at the time called langes Schwert ( longsword ) or spadone , was common , and a number of 15th - and 16th-century Fechtbücher offering instructions on their use survive .
During the 17th and 18th centuries , the shorter smallsword became an essential fashion accessory in European countries and the New World , though in some places such as the Scottish Highlands large swords as the basket-hilted broadsword were preferred , and most wealthy men and military officers carried one slung from a belt .
The high visibility and limited practical use of the weapon however led to Sword being abandoned within weeks , although most mounted cavalry continued to carry sabres throughout the War .
On these occasions depending on their billet , Marine Staff Non-Commissioned Officers ( E-6 and above ) may also be required to carry Sword , which have hilts of a pattern similar to U.S. Naval officers ' Sword but are actually sabres .
The section in between the CoP and the CoB is the middle .
The typology also focuses on the smaller , and in some cases contemporary , single-handed swords such as Sword .
In most Asian countries , a sword ( jian 劍 , geom , ken/tsurugi , pedang ) is a double-edged straight-bladed weapon , while a knife or saber ( dāo 刀 , do , to/katana , pisau , golok ) refers to a single-edged object .
A Hand and a half sword , colloquially known as a `` bastard sword '' , was a sword with an extended grip that could be used with either one or two hands .
For example , the sphere and torus are orientable , while the real projective plane is not ( because deleting a point or disk from the real projective plane produces the Möbius strip ) .
Such a definition considered the surface as part of a larger ( Euclidean ) space , and as such was termed extrinsic .
However , the Whitney embedding theorem asserts every surface can in fact be embedded homeomorphically into Euclidean space , in fact into E4 : The extrinsic and intrinsic approaches turn out to be equivalent .
Steiner surfaces , including Boy 's surface , the Roman surface and the cross-cap , are immersions of the real projective plane into E ³ .
The connected sum of two surfaces M and N , denoted M The sphere S is an identity element for the connected sum , meaning that .
Conversely , the boundary of Surface is a closed 1-manifold , and is therefore the disjoint union of a finite number of circles ; filling these circles with disks ( formally , taking the cone ) yields a closed surface .
The unique compact orientable surface of genus g and with k boundary components is often denoted for example in the study of the mapping class group .
Topological and combinatorial proofs in general rely on the difficult result that every compact 2-manifold is homeomorphic to a simplicial complex , which is of interest in Surface own right .
A simplified proof , which avoids a standard form , was discovered by John H. Conway circa 1992 , which he called the `` Zero Irrelevancy Proof '' or `` ZIP proof '' and is presented in .
The possibility of life on Mars , either currently or in the past , is an active area of research .
Astrobiology is etymologically derived from the Greek , astron , `` constellation , star '' ; , bios , `` life '' ; and , , study .
Advancements in the fields of astrobiology , observational astronomy and discovery of large varieties of extremophiles with extraordinary capability to thrive in the harshest environments on Earth , have led to speculation that life may possibly be thriving on many of the extraterrestrial bodies in Astrobiology .
Very small stars provide so little heat and warmth that only planets in very close orbits around them would not be frozen solid , and in such close orbits these planets would be tidally `` locked '' to the star .
Research on communication with extraterrestrial intelligence ( CETI ) focuses on composing and deciphering messages that could theoretically be understood by another technological civilization .
The SETI program , for example , uses both radio telescopes and optical telescopes to search for deliberate signals from extraterrestrial intelligence .
While some high-profile scientists , such as Carl Sagan , have advocated the transmission of messages , scientist Stephen Hawking has warned against Astrobiology , suggesting that aliens might simply raid Earth for Astrobiology resources and then move on .
A NASA research group , the Virtual Planet Laboratory , is using computer modeling to generate a wide variety of virtual planets to see what they would look like if viewed by TPF or Darwin .
The second and third terms , Stars with Planets and Planets with Habitable Conditions , are being evaluated for the sun 's neighborhood .
Biologists can not say that a process or phenomenon , by being mathematically possible , have to exist forcibly in the real nature .
Even life in the ocean depths , where sunlight can not reach , was believed to obtain Astrobiology nourishment either from consuming organic detritus rained down from the surface waters or from eating animals that did .
Instead of plants , the basis for this food chain is a form of bacterium that derives Astrobiology energy from oxidization of reactive chemicals , such as hydrogen or hydrogen sulfide , that bubble up from the Earth 's interior .
Such organisms include biota which are able to survive several kilometers below the ocean 's surface near hydrothermal vents and microbes that thrive in highly acidic environments .
( also see Abiogenesis In October 2011 , scientists found that the cosmic dust permeating Astrobiology contains complex organic matter ( `` amorphous organic solids with a mixed aromatic-aliphatic structure '' ) that could be created naturally , and rapidly , by stars .
As one of the scientists noted , `` Coal and kerogen are products of life and Astrobiology took a long time for them to form ... How do stars make such complicated organics under seemingly unfavorable conditions and do Astrobiology so rapidly ?
Further , the scientist suggested that these compounds may have been related to the development of life on earth and said that , `` If this is the case , life on Earth may have had an easier time getting started as these organics can serve as basic ingredients for life '' .
On August 29 , 2012 , and in Astrobiology first , astronomers at Copenhagen University reported the detection of a specific sugar molecule , glycolaldehyde , in a distant star system .
Only two of the natural atoms , carbon and silicon , are known to serve as the backbones of molecules sufficiently large to carry biological information .
Thought on where in the Solar System life might occur was limited historically by the belief that life relies ultimately on light and warmth from the Sun and , therefore , is restricted to the surfaces of planets .
This speculation of likely candidates of life is primarily based on the fact that ( in the cases of Mars and Europa ) the planetary bodies may have liquid water , a molecule essential for life as we know Astrobiology , for Astrobiology use as a solvent in cells .
Additionally , Saturn 's moon Enceladus may have an ocean below Astrobiology icy surface and , according to NASA scientists in May 2011 , `` is emerging as the most habitable spot beyond Earth in the Solar System for life as we know it '' .
The Mars Science Laboratory rover will perform precision measurements of oxygen and carbon isotope ratios in carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) and methane ( CH4 ) in the atmosphere of Mars in order to distinguish between a geochemical and a biological origin .
For example , NASA 's Kepler Mission seeks to discover Earth-sized planets around other stars by measuring minute changes in the star 's light curve as the planet passes between the star and the spacecraft .
Missions such as the Phoenix lander , Mars Science Laboratory , ExoMars to Mars , and the Cassini probe to Saturn 's moon Titan hope to further explore the possibilities of life on other planets in our solar system .
The term Surjective function and the related terms injective and bijective were introduced by Nicolas Bourbaki , a group of mainly French 20th-century mathematicians who wrote a series of books presenting an exposition of modern advanced mathematics , beginning in 1935 .
In other words , g is a right inverse of f if the composition of g and f in that order is the identity function on the domain Y of g .
Any function with domain X and codomain Y can be seen as a left-total and right-unique binary relation between X and Y by identifying Surjective function with Surjective function function graph .
The cardinality of the domain of a surjective function is greater than or equal to the cardinality of Surjective function codomain : If is a surjective function , then X has at least as many elements as Y , in the sense of cardinal numbers .
Then f carries each x to the element of Y which contains Surjective function , and g carries each element of Y to the point in Z to which h sends Surjective function points .
Surjective function is a binary relation between X and Y that is right-unique .
Stephen Jay Gould ( September 10 , 1941 -- May 20 , 2002 ) was an American paleontologist , evolutionary biologist , and historian of science .
Gould spent most of Stephen Jay Gould career teaching at Harvard University and working at the American Museum of Natural History in New York .
Stephen Jay Gould father , Leonard , was a court stenographer , and Stephen Jay Gould mother , Eleanor , was an artist whose parents were Jewish immigrants living and working in the city 's Garment District .
According to Gould the most influential political books Stephen Jay Gould read were C. Wright Mills ' The Power Elite and the political writings of Noam Chomsky .
Stephen Jay Gould second marriage , in 1995 , was to artist and sculptor Rhonda Roland Shearer , who is the mother of two children , Jade and London Allen , stepchildren of Gould .
Considering that the cancer was detected early , the fact Stephen Jay Gould was young , optimistic , and had the best treatments available , Gould figured that Stephen Jay Gould should be in the favorable half of the upper statistical range .
For example , George Gaylord Simpson , in `` Tempo and mode in evolution '' ( 1941 ) , described evolutionary history as being characterized by long periods of stasis ( bradytely ) or gradual change ( horotely ) , punctuated by short bursts of rapid change ( tachytely ) .
In response , Gould , Richard Lewontin , and others from the Boston area wrote the subsequently well-referenced letter to The New York Review of Books entitled , `` Against ` Sociobiology ' '' .
Gould and Lewontin thus defined `` spandrels '' in the evolutionary biology context , to mean any biological feature of an organism that arises as a necessary side consequence of other features , which is not directly selected for by natural selection .
... Now Stephen Jay Gould main subject is the evolution of form , and the problem of how it is that you can get this diversity amid so little genetic difference , so far as we can tell , is a very interesting one .
Gould claimed that both theories developed from an unfounded belief in biological determinism , the view that `` social and economic differences between human groups -- primarily races , classes , and sexes -- arise from inherited , inborn distinctions and that society , in this sense , is an accurate reflection of biology '' .
When the 1996 version of ` The Mismeasure of Man ' came and Stephen Jay Gould never even bothered to mention Michael 's study , Stephen Jay Gould just felt Stephen Jay Gould was a charlatan '' .
The non-overlapping magisteria ( NOMA ) principle therefore divides the magisterium of science to cover `` the empirical realm : what the Universe is made of ( fact ) and why does it work in this way ( theory ) .
For example , in Stephen Jay Gould book The God Delusion , Richard Dawkins argues that the division between religion and science is not as simple as it seems , as few religions exist without claiming the existence of miracles , which `` by definition , violate the principles of science '' .
High responds that while Skíðblaðnir is the finest ship and the most ingeniously created , the biggest ship is in fact Naglfar , which is owned by Muspell .
The Sons of Ivaldi , who High adds are dwarfs , crafted the ship and gave Skíðblaðnir to Freyr .
High continues that the ship is big enough for all of the gods to travel aboard Skíðblaðnir with wargear and weapons in tow , and that , as soon as Skíðblaðnir sail is hoisted , the ship finds good wind , and goes wherever Skíðblaðnir need be .
In Norse mythology , Sleipnir ( Old Norse `` slippy '' or `` the slipper '' ) is an eight-legged horse .
Additionally , Sleipnir is mentioned in a riddle found in the 13th century legendary saga Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks , in the 13th century legendary saga Völsunga saga as the ancestor of the horse Grani , and book I of Gesta Danorum , written in the 12th century by Saxo Grammaticus , contains an episode considered by many scholars to involve Sleipnir .
In Grímnismál , Grimnir ( Odin in disguise and not yet having revealed his identity ) tells the boy Agnar in verse that Sleipnir is the best of horses ( `` Odin is the best of the Æsir , Sleipnir of horses '' ) .
Gangleri ( described earlier in the book as King Gylfi in disguise ) asks High who the horse Sleipnir belongs to and what there is to tell about it .
Some dialogue occurs between Hermóðr and Móðguðr , including that Móðguðr notes that recently there had ridden five battalions of dead men across the bridge that made less sound than he .
Sleipnir `` jumped so hard and over the gate that Sleipnir came nowhere near '' .
Hrungnir asks `` what sort of person this was '' wearing a golden helmet , `` riding sky and sea , '' and says that the stranger `` has Sleipnir '' .
Lindow adds that the eight legs of Sleipnir `` have been interpreted as an indication of great speed or as being connected in some unclear way with cult activity '' .
Hilda Ellis Davidson says that `` Sleipnir is the typical steed of the shaman '' and that in the shaman 's journeys to the heavens or the underworld , a shaman `` is usually represented as riding on some bird or animal '' .
Davidson adds that the representation of Odin 's steed as eight-legged could arise naturally out of such an image , and that `` this is in accordance with the picture of Sleipnir as a horse that could bear Sleipnir rider to the land of the dead '' .
The encyclopedia cites parallels between the birth of Sleipnir and myths originally pointing to a Celtic goddess who gave birth to the Divine horse twins .
Sir Walter Scott , 1st Baronet FRSE ( 15 August 1771 -- 21 September 1832 ) was a Scottish historical novelist , playwright , and poet , popular throughout much of the world during Walter Scott time .
Walter Scott reading included chivalric romances , poems , history and travel books .
No wonder why Walter Scott felt rebuked beneath Walter Scott eye.In 1809 , Scott persuaded James Ballantyne and Walter Scott brother to move to Edinburgh and to establish their printing press there .
As a political conservative and advocate of the Union with England , Scott helped to found the Tory Quarterly Review , a review journal to which Walter Scott made several anonymous contributions .
Impressed by this , the Prince Regent ( the future George IV ) gave Walter Scott permission to search for the fabled but long-lost Crown Jewels ( `` Honours of Scotland '' ) , which during the years of the Protectorate under Cromwell had been squirrelled away and had last been used to crown Charles II .
Walter Scott , along with Walter Scott `` production team '' , mounted what in modern days could be termed a PR event , in which the ( rather tubby ) King was dressed in tartan ( worn over pink tights ) , and was greeted by Walter Scott people , many of whom were also dressed in similar tartan ceremonial dress .
This form of dress , proscribed after the 1745 rebellion against the English , became one of the seminal , potent and ubiquitous symbols of Scottish identity .
Through the medium of Scott 's novels , the violent religious and political conflicts of the country 's recent past could be seen as belonging to history -- which Walter Scott defined , as the subtitle of Waverley ( '' 'T is Sixty Years Since '' ) indicates , as something that happened at least 60 years ago .
Scott 's orchestration of King George IV 's visit to Scotland , in 1822 , was a pivotal event intended to inspire a view of Walter Scott home country that , in Walter Scott view , accentuated the positive aspects of the past while allowing the age of quasi-mediaeval blood-letting to be put to rest and the envisioning of a more useful , hopefully peaceful future .
F. R. Leavis had rubbished Scott , seeing Walter Scott as a thoroughly bad novelist and a thoroughly bad influence ( The Great Tradition 1948 ) ; Marilyn Butler , however , offered a political reading of the fiction of the period that found a great deal of genuine interest in Walter Scott work ( Romantics , Revolutionaries , and Reactionaries 1981 ) .
This provoked such a response that the Government was forced to relent and allow the Scottish banks to continue printing pound notes .
In Walter Scott 1870 memoir , Army Life in a Black Regiment , New England abolitionist Thomas Wentworth Higginson ( later editor of Emily Dickinson ) , described how Walter Scott wrote down and preserved Negro spirituals or `` shouts '' while serving an a colonel in the First South Carolina Volunteers , the first authorized Union Army regiment recruited from freedmen during the Civil War ( memorialized in the 1989 film Glory ) .
The idyllic Cape Cod retreat of suffragists Verena Tarrant and Olive Chancellor in Henry James ' The Bostonians ( 1886 ) is called Marmion , evoking what James considered the Quixotic idealism of these social reformers .
Then her husband thought , `` That 's what they 'll say of Walter Scott ; '' so Walter Scott went and got one of those books ... Scott 's feeling for straight forward simple things , these fishermen , the poor old crazed creature in Mucklebackit 's cottage in The Antiquary made Walter Scott feel so vigorous , so relieved of something that Walter Scott felt roused and triumphant and could not choke back Walter Scott tears ... It fortified Walter Scott .
In Mother Night ( 1961 ) by Kurt Vonnegut , Jr. , memoirist and playwright Howard W. Campbell , Jr. prefaces Walter Scott text with the six lines beginning `` Breathes there the man ... '' In Knights of the Sea ( 2010 ) by Canadian author Paul Marlowe , there are several quotes from and references to Marmion , as well as an inn named after Ivanhoe , and a fictitious Scott novel entitled The Beastmen of Glen Glammoch .
Savoy comprises roughly the territory of the Western Alps situated between Lake Geneva in the north and Dauphiné in the south .
The historical territory is shared between the modern republics of France and Italy .
Savoy , along with the county of Nice , was finally annexed to France by a plebiscite , under the Second French Empire in 1860 , as part of a political agreement ( Treaty of Turin ) brokered between the French emperor Napoleon III and King Victor Emmanuel II of the Kingdom of Sardinia that began the process of unification of Italy .
During the interminable wars between France and Spain over the control of northern Italy , Savoy was important to France because it provided access to Italy .
Savoy was important to Spain because it served as a buffer between France and the Spanish held lands in Italy .
Savoy was occupied by French revolutionary forces between 1792 and 1815 .
Two-thirds of Savoy was restored to the Kingdom of Sardinia in the First Restoration of 1814 following Napoleon 's abdication ; approximately one-third of Savoy , including the two most important cities of Chambéry and Annecy , remained in France .
Following Napoleon 's brief return to power during the Hundred Days and subsequent defeat at Waterloo , the remaining one-third of Savoy was restored to the Kingdom of Sardinia at the Congress of Vienna to strengthen Sardinia as a buffer state on France 's southeastern border .
In the northern provinces of the Chablais and Faucigny , there was some sympathy for annexation to neighboring Switzerland , with which the northern provinces had longstanding economic ties .
In late March 1860 , the betrothal ceremony of Savoy to France took place in Tuileries Palace ... , a ceremony which was a pact of love and fidelity ... it is with free consent that she Savoy gave itself to France by a solemn plebiscite which our leaders can ignore neither the terms nor the commitments .
This explains why in 1858-1859 when rumours ran of the Plombières secret agreement , where Napoleon III and Cavour decided of the fate of Savoy , the Savoyards themselves took the initiative to ask for the incorporation ( rattachement ) .
According to surveys conducted in 2000 , between 41 % and 55 % of the population were in favour of the proposal for a separate Savoy region , while 19 % to 23 % were in favour of separation from France .
Suffolk , and several adjacent areas , became the kingdom of East Anglia , which was settled by the Angles in the 5th century AD , later merging with Mercia and then Wessex .
These were originally four in number , reduced to two in 1860 , the eastern division being administered from Ipswich and the western from Bury St Edmunds .
Following the May 2010 General Election , all further moves towards any of the suggested unitary solutions ceased on the instructions of the incoming Coalition Government , and the administrative structures of Suffolk are therefore unchanged .
Between 1981 and 2001 the population of Suffolk grew by 13 % , with the district of Mid Suffolk growing fastest at 25 % .
Other artists of note from Suffolk include the cartoonist Carl Giles ( a bronze statue of his character `` Grandma '' to commemorate this is located in Ipswich town centre ) , poets George Crabbe and Robert Bloomfield , writer and editor Ronald Blythe , actors Ralph Fiennes and Bob Hoskins , actress and singer Kerry Ellis , musician and record producer Brian Eno , singer Ed Sheeran and Dani Filth , singer of the Suffolk-based extreme metal group , Cradle of Filth .
King of East Anglia and Christian martyr St Edmund ( after whom the town of Bury St Edmunds is named ) was killed by invading Danes in the year 869 .
University Campus Suffolk , a collaboration between the University of Essex , the University of East Anglia , partner colleges such as Suffolk New College and local government , began accepting Suffolk first students in September 2007 .
This mainly open-air festival , which has grown considerably in size and scope , includes popular music , comedy , poetry and literary events .
The Fourth Protocol , a novel written by Frederick Forsyth , is a Cold War spy thriller partly set in Suffolk and was made into a film starring Michael Caine and Pierce Brosnan .
The idiom `` between Scylla and Charybdis '' has come to mean being between two dangers , choosing either of which brings harm .
There are various Greek myths accounting for Scylla origins and fate .
Other painters picture them divided by their respective elements of land and water , as in the paintings of the Flemish Bartholomäus Spranger ( 1587 ) , now in the Kunsthistorisches Museum , Vienna .
The term `` solitaire '' is also used for single-player games of concentration and skill using a set layout of tiles , pegs or stones rather than cards .
Building ( or Packing ) involves cards being placed in stacks or cascades according to various rules .
Glossary of solitaire is a number of common features in many solitaire games , such as `` building down '' and the `` foundations '' and `` tableau '' , used to simplify the description of new games .
In classical mythology , Syrinx ( Greek Συρινξ ) was a nymph and a follower of Artemis , known for her chastity .
The story of Syrinx is told in Achilles Tatius ' Leukippe and Kleitophon where the heroine is subjected to a virginity test by entering a cave where Pan has left syrinx pipes that will sound a melody if she passes .
However , for many acts the `` off season '' does not mean a period of inactivity , Air show use time for maintenance and practice .
Some are large scale military events with large flying displays and ground exhibitions while others held at small local airstrips can often feature just one or two hours of flying with just a few stalls on the ground .
Also , a fighter jet flying straight and level will be able to do so closer to the crowd and lower than if Air show were performing a roll or a loop .
Savate , also known as Savate , French boxing , French kickboxing or French footfighting , is a traditional French martial art which uses the hands and feet as weapons combining elements of western boxing with graceful kicking techniques .
Savate was known as jeu marseillais ( `` game from Marseille '' ) , and was later renamed chausson ( `` slipper '' , after the type of shoes the sailors wore ) .
Casseux 's pupil Charles Lecour was exposed to the English art of boxing when he witnessed an English boxing match in France between English pugilist Owen Swift and Jack Adams in 1838 .
Savate was developed professionally by Lecour 's student Joseph Charlemont and then his son Charles Charlemont .
The Technical road is Blue Glove , Green Glove , Red Glove , White Glove , Yellow Glove , Silver Glove I , Silver Glove II and Silver Glove III ( Violet Glove for less than 17 years of Age ) Competition Road : Bronze Glove , Silver Glove I , Silver Glove II , Silver Glove III , Silver Glove IV and Silver Glove V Teaching Ranks : Initiateur , Aide-Moniteur , Moniteur and Professeur In some clubs there is no rank of Aide-Moniteur , while in other Associations there is no rank of Initiateur .
8 to 12 years on average are necessary for a student to reach Professeur level , 8 years in the Italian Federation , and but 2 years in some federations .
In the 1970s the term `` savate '' was rarely used in France to refer to the formalised sport : people mostly used the term Boxe-Française Savate , B.F , B.F.S. or simply Boxe-Française .
Sextus Julius Africanus ( c. 160 -- c. 240 ) was a Christian traveller and historian of the late 2nd and early 3rd century AD .
Sextus Julius Africanus was at one time a soldier and had been a pagan ; Sextus Julius Africanus wrote all Sextus Julius Africanus works as a Christian .
Whether Julius Africanus was a layman or a cleric remains controversial .
Sextus Julius Africanus calculated the period between Creation and Jesus as 5500 years , placing the Incarnation on the first day of AM 5501 ( our modern March 25 1 BC ) , according to Venance Grumel , La Chronologie ( 1958 ) .
Eusebius gives some extracts from Sextus Julius Africanus letter to one Aristides , reconciling the apparent discrepancy between Matthew and Luke in the genealogy of Christ by a reference to the Jewish law of Levirate marriage , which compelled a man to marry the widow of Sextus Julius Africanus deceased brother , if the latter died without issue .
Sextus Julius Africanus terse and pertinent letter to Origen impugning the authority of the part of the Book of Daniel that tells the story of Susanna , and Origen 's wordy and uncritical answer , are both extant .
The ascription to Africanus of an encyclopaedic work entitled Kestoi ( Κέστος `` embroidered '' ) , treating of agriculture , natural history , military science , etc. , has been disputed on account of its secular and often credulous character .
According to the New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge , the Kestoi `` appears to have been intended as a sort of encyclopedia of the material sciences with the cognate mathematical and technical branches , but to have contained a large proportion of merely curious , trifling , or miraculous matters , on which account the authorship of Julius has been questioned .
Agnes of Rome ( c. 291 -- c. 304 ) is a virgin -- martyr , venerated as a saint in the Roman Catholic Church , Eastern Orthodox Church , the Anglican Communion , and Lutheranism .
Agnes of Rome memorial , which commemorates Agnes of Rome martyrdom , is 21 January in both the Roman Catholic calendar of saints and in the General Roman Calendar of 1962 .
Hrotsvitha , the tenth-century nun and poetess , wrote a play the subject of which was Agnes of Rome .
`` Red cooking '' is another popular style of stewing meats and vegetables .
`` Beggar 's chicken '' is a dish of a southern origin , wrapped in lotus leaves and covered in clay .
Though usually prepared in ovens , the original and historic preparation involved cooking in the ground .
The lion 's head and Shanghai-style niangao are also unique to Shanghai cuisine , as are Shanghai cuisine fried noodles , a regional variant of chow mein that is made with Shanghai-style thick noodle .
These stalls also sell other types of buns , such as shengjian mantou and guotie , all eaten dipped in black vinegar .
Luo bo si bing , or pancake stuffed with radish strips , is also a popular dish for breakfast .
Foods such as rice , sorghum ( known by some Europeans as `` guinea corn '' ) , and okra -- all common elements of West African cuisine -- were introduced to the Americas as a result of the trans-Atlantic slave trade .
Slave owners provided Soul food slaves with the poor parts of the pig such as the small intestines : chitterlings were a dish of poor people in medieval England and the name was adopted by the African-Americans through their European slave owners to `` chitlins '' .
House of Sforza governed by force , ruse , and power politics , similar to the Medici in Florence .
Muzio Attendolo ( 1369 -- 1424 ) , called Sforza ( from sforzare , to exert or force ) , founded the dynasty .
After Imperial German troops drove out the French , Maximilian Sforza , son of Ludovico , became Duke of Milan ( 1512-1515 ) until the French returned under Francis I of France and imprisoned him .
Septuagint should not be confused with the seven or more other Greek versions of the Old Testament , most of which did not survive except as fragments ( some parts of these being known from Origen 's Hexapla , a comparison of six translations in adjacent columns , now almost wholly lost ) .
The Roman numeral LXX ( seventy ) is commonly used as an abbreviation , as are or G .
The date of the 3rd century BCE , given in the legend , is confirmed ( for the Torah translation ) by a number of factors , including the Greek being representative of early Koine , citations beginning as early as the 2nd century BCE , and early manuscripts datable to the 2nd century .
Other books , such as the Daniel and Proverbs , show Greek influence more strongly .
The canonicity of the larger group of `` writings '' ( the Jewish ketuvim ) had not yet been established , although some sort of selective process must have been employed because Septuagint did not include other well-known Jewish documents such as Enoch or Jubilees or other writings that are not part of the Jewish canon .
What was perhaps most significant for the LXX , as distinct from other Greek versions , was that the LXX began to lose Jewish sanction after differences between Septuagint and contemporary Hebrew scriptures were discovered ( see above ) .
While Jews have not used the LXX in worship or religious study since the 2nd century CE , recent scholarship has brought renewed interest in it in the field of Judaic Studies .
The Early Christian Church used the Greek texts since Greek was a lingua franca of the Roman Empire at the time , and the language of the Greco-Roman Church ( Aramaic was the language of Syriac Christianity , which used the Targums ) .
The relationship between the apostolic use of the Old Testament , for example , Septuagint and the now lost Hebrew texts ( though to some degree and in some form carried on in Masoretic tradition ) is complicated .
In the Early Christian Church , the presumption that the Septuagint was translated by Jews before the era of Christ , and that the Septuagint at certain places gives Septuagint more to a christological interpretation than 2nd-century Hebrew texts was taken as evidence that `` Jews '' had changed the Hebrew text in a way that made them less christological .
For example , the Jerusalem Bible Foreword says , '' ... only when this ( the Masoretic Text ) presents insuperable difficulties have emendations or other versions , such as the ... LXX , been used '' .
But nearly all attempts at dating specific books , with the exception of the Pentateuch ( early - to mid-3rd century BCE ) , are tentative and without consensus .
Origen also kept a column for the Old Greek ( Septuagint ) and next to it was a critical apparatus combining readings from all the Greek versions with diacritical marks indicating to which version each line ( Gr. στἰχος ) belonged .
The sources of the many differences between Septuagint , the Latin Vulgate and the Masoretic text have long been discussed by scholars .
This instance illustrates the complexity of assessing differences between the LXX and the Masoretic Text as well as the Vulgate .
The differences between the LXX and the MT thus fall into four categories .
The International Organization for Septuagint and Cognate Studies ( IOSCS ) , a nonprofit , learned society formed to promote international research in and study of Septuagint and related texts , has established February 8 annually as International Septuagint Day , a day to promote the discipline on campuses and in communities .
Approximately half of the Greek Old Testament ( or Septuagint ) survived , along with a complete New Testament , plus the Epistle of Barnabas , and portions of The Shepherd of Hermas .
Some words usually abbreviated in other manuscripts ( such as πατηρ and δαυειδ ) , are in this codex both written in full and abbreviated forms .
As for the cost of the material , time of scribes and binding , Codex Sinaiticus equals the lifetime wages of one individual at the time .
The fact that some parts of the codex are preserved in good condition , while others are in very poor condition , implies they were separated and stored in several places .
In 1 John 5:6 Codex Sinaiticus has textual variant δι ' ὕδατος καὶ αἵματος καὶ πνεύματος ( through water and blood and spirit ) together with the manuscripts : Codex Alexandrinus , 104 , 424c , 614 , 1739c , 2412 , 2495 , ℓ 598m , syrh , copsa , copbo , Origen .
These are written in a different format from the rest of the manuscript -- Codex Sinaiticus are in two columns ( the rest of books is in four columns ) and written stichometrically .
Milne and Skeat have observed that the superscription to 1 Maccabees was made by scribe D , while the text was written by scribe A. Scribe D corrects his own work and that of scribe A , but scribe A limits to correcting his own work .
In the 6th or 7th century , many alterations were made ( אb ) , which , according to a colophon at the end of the book of Esdras and Esther states , that the source of these alterations was `` a very ancient manuscript that had been corrected by the hand of the holy martyr Pamphylus '' ( martyred in 309 ) .
The Story of the World 's Oldest Bible location = London publisher = The British Library year = 2010 pages = 140 -- 142 The complete publication of the codex was made by Kirsopp Lake in 1911 ( New Testament ) , and in 1922 ( Old Testament ) .
The story of how von Tischendorf found the manuscript , which contained most of the Old Testament and all of the New Testament , has all the interest of a romance .
And so saying , he took down from the corner of the room a bulky kind of volume , wrapped up in a red cloth , and laid Codex Sinaiticus before me .
James Bentley gives an account of how this came about , prefacing it with the comment , `` Tischendorf therefore now embarked on the remarkable piece of duplicity which was to occupy him for the next decade , which involved the careful suppression of facts and the systematic denigration of the monks of Mount Sinai '' .
Simonides also claimed his father had passed away and the invitation to Mt. Athos came from his uncle , a monk there , but subsequent letters to his father were found among his possessions at his death .
While the word ` forgery ' has been bandied about among scholars regarding the claims on the Codex Sinaiticus by Tischendorf , perhaps a more accurate rendering would be recollation and ` adjusted ' restoration as Simonides , an expert on hieroglyphics which are represented throughout Codex Sinaiticus , was also an expert at the restoration of palimpsests , of which Codex Sinaiticus is one .
Tischendorf answered in Allgemeine Zeitung ( December ) , that only in the New Testament there are many differences between it and all other manuscripts .
Bradshaw showed that the Codex Sinaiticus brought by Tischendorf from the Greek monastery of Mount Sinai was not a modern forgery or written by Simonides .
Burgon , a supporter of the Textus Receptus , suggested that Codex Sinaiticus , as well as codices Vaticanus and Codex Bezae , were the most corrupt documents extant .
Each of these three codices `` clearly exhibits a fabricated text -- is the result of arbitrary and reckless recension '' .
The online version has a fully transcribed set of digital pages , including amendments to the text , and two images of each page , with both standard lighting and raked lighting to highlight the texture of the parchment .
However , recently published documents , including a deed of gift dated 11 September 1868 and signed by Archbishop Kallistratos and the monks of the monastery , indicate that the manuscript was acquired entirely legitimately .
Unfortunately this development is not widely known in the English-speaking world , as only German - and Russian-language media reported on it in 2009 .
Resolution of the matter was delayed through the turbulent reign of Archbishop Cyril ( consecrated 7 December 1859 , deposed 24 August 1866 ) , and the situation only formalised after the restoration of peace .
Codex Sinaiticus is the only uncial manuscript with the complete text of the New Testament , and the only ancient manuscript of the New Testament written in four columns per page which has survived to the present day .
With only 300 years separating Codex Sinaiticus and the original manuscripts of the New Testament , it is considered to be very highly accurate , as opposed to most later copies , in preserving obviously superior readings where many later manuscripts are in error .
This inclusion of Christ among those who must do their work `` while Codex Sinaiticus is day '' ( during one 's lifetime ) is an indication to some biblical commentators that his was a ministry of limited time and scope .
In the Book of Revelation , however , Codex Sinaiticus text is corrupted and is considered of poor quality , and inferior to the texts of Codex Alexandrinus , Papyrus 47 , and even some minuscule manuscripts in this place ( for example , Minuscule 2053 , 2062 ) .
A statite ( a portmanteau of static and satellite ) is a hypothetical type of artificial satellite that employs a solar sail to continuously modify Statite orbit in ways that gravity alone would not allow .
Gradually , their vocalizing becomes an overture blending fragments of `` Remember , '' `` Soon , '' and `` The Glamorous Life , '' leading into the first `` Night Waltz '' .
Anne 's maidservant Petra , an experienced and forthright girl , slightly older than the teen herself , offers her worldly but crass advice .
Meanwhile , in the garden , Fredrik and Carl-Magnus reflect on how difficult A Little Night Music is to be annoyed with Desiree , agreeing `` A Little Night Music Would Have Been Wonderful '' had she not been quite so wonderful .
Carl-Magnus , preparing to romance Desiree , sees this and challenges Fredrik to Russian Roulette , at which a nervous Fredrik misfires and simply grazes his own ear .
A US national tour began on February 26 , 1974 at the Forrest Theatre , Philadelphia , and ended on February 13 , 1975 at the Shubert Theatre , Boston .
Jean Simmons as Desiree Armfeldt , George Lee Andrews as Fredrik Egerman and Margaret Hamilton as Madame Armfeldt headed the cast .
The 2008 Menier Chocolate Factory production opened on Broadway at the Walter Kerr Theatre in previews on November 24 , 2009 and officially on December 13 , 2009 , with the same creative team .
Michigan Opera Theatre was the first major American opera company to present the work in 1983 , and again in November 2009 .
New York City Opera 's production in August 1990 and July 1991 ( total of 18 performances ) won the 1990 Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Revival and was telecast on the PBS show `` Live at Lincoln Center '' on November 7 , 1990 .
Stephen Sondheim wrote lyrics for the `` Night Waltz '' theme ( `` Love Takes Time '' ) and wrote an entirely new version of `` The Glamorous Life '' , which has been incorporated into several subsequent productions of the stage musical .
Critic Rex Reed noted that `` The score of ` Night Music ' ... contains patter songs , contrapuntal duets and trios , a quartet , and even a dramatic double quintet to puzzle through .
Passages in `` Overture '' , `` Glamorous Life '' , `` Liaisons '' , and `` The Miller 's Son '' are in duple meter .
What I did n't want to do is the quodlibet method ... would n't A Little Night Music be nice to have three songs you do n't think are going to go together , and A Little Night Music do go together ... The trick was the little vamp on `` Soon '' which has five-and six-note chords '' .
The show 's best-known and Sondheim 's biggest hit song was almost an afterthought , written several days before the start of out of town tryouts .
The song remains an anthem to regret for unwise decisions in the past and recognition that there 's no need to send in the clowns-they 're already here '' .
The 2009 Broadway revival with Catherine Zeta-Jones and Angela Lansbury recorded a cast album on January 4 , 2010 which was released on April 6 .
The production is `` sparing on furniture and heavy on shadows '' , with `` a scaled-down orchestra at lugubriously slowed-down tempos ... '' He goes on to write that `` this somber , less-is-more approach could be effective were the ensemble plugged into the same rueful sensibility .
Solar sail ( also called light sails or photon sails ) are a form of spacecraft propulsion using the radiation pressure ( also called solar pressure ) of a combination of light and high speed ejected gasses from a star to push large ultra-thin mirrors to high speeds .
Jules Verne , in From the Earth to the Moon , published in 1865 , wrote `` there will some day appear velocities far greater than these of the planets and the projectile , of which light or electricity will probably be the mechanical agent ... we shall one day travel to the moon , the planets , and the stars '' .
Pyotr Lebedev was first to successfully demonstrate light pressure , which he did in 1899 with a torsional balance ; Ernest Nichols and Gordon Hull conducted a similar independent experiment in 1901 using a Nichols radiometer .
An active attitude control system ( ACS ) is essential for a sail craft to achieve and maintain a desired orientation .
Control is achieved by a relative shift between the craft 's center of pressure and Solar sail center of mass .
Forward 's solution to this requires enormous solar panel arrays to be built at or near the planet Mercury .
Such an endeavor could allow future solar-sailed craft to effectively utilize focused energy from other stars rather than from the Earth or Sun , thus propelling them more swiftly through space and perhaps even to more distant stars .
However , the potential of such a theory remains uncertain if not dubious due to the high-speed precision involved and possible payloads required .
Research by Dr. Geoffrey Landis in 1998-9 , funded by the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts , showed that various materials such as alumina for laser lightsails and carbon fiber for microwave pushed lightsails were superior sail materials to the previously standard aluminium or Kapton films .
The second way is ruled out in the present case of σ = 2 g/m ² ; as a matter of fact , a small α < 0 entails a λr too high and a negative λt too low in absolute value : the sailcraft would go far from the Sun with a decreasing speed ( as discussed above ) .
The next known publication came more than 20 years later when Georges Le Faure and Henri De Graffigny published a four-volume science fiction novel in 1889 , The Extraordinary Adventures of a Russian Scientist , which included a spacecraft propelled by solar pressure .
In `` Flight of the Dragonfly '' , Robert Forward ( who also proposed the microwave-pushed Starwisp design ) described an interstellar journey using a light driven propulsion system , wherein a part of the sail was broken off and used as a reflector to slow the main spacecraft as it approached Solar sail destination .
In Christianity , Sabellianism , ( also known as modalism , modalistic monarchianism , or modal monarchism ) is the nontrinitarian belief that the Heavenly Father , Resurrected Son and Holy Spirit are different modes or aspects of one monadic God , as perceived by Sabellianism , rather than three distinct persons within the Godhead .
The only possible exceptions to this are the Great Commission Matthew 28:16 -20 , 2 Corinthians 13:14 , and the Comma Johanneum , which many regard as a spurious text passage in First John ( 1 John 5:7 ) known primarily from the King James Version and some versions of the Textus Receptus but not included in modern critical texts .
However , whereas Trinitarians believe that `` God the Son '' , the eternal second person of the Trinity , became man , Oneness adherents hold that the one and only true God -- who manifests himself in any way he chooses , including as Father , Son and Holy Spirit -- became man .
Oneness Pentecostals and other modalists are regarded by Catholic , Orthodox , and some other mainstream Christians as heretical for rejecting the Trinity Doctrine , which they regard as equivalent to Unitarianism .
The first general council at Constantinople in 381 in canon VII and the third general council at Constantinople in 680 in canon XCV declared the baptism of Sabellius to be invalid , which indicates that Sabellianism was still extant .
This was because Sabellius also considered the Father and the Son to be `` one substance '' .
Oneness Pentecostalism teaches that God is one Person , and that the Father ( a spirit ) is united with Jesus ( a man ) as the Son of God .
Sino-Indian War , also known as the Sino-Indian Border Conflict , was a war between China and India that occurred in 1962 .
At Sino-Indian War western end is the Aksai Chin region , an area the size of Switzerland , that sits between the Chinese autonomous region of Xinjiang and Tibet ( which China declared as an autonomous region in 1965 ) .
The eastern border , between Burma and Bhutan , comprises the present Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh ( formerly the North East Frontier Agency ) .
Aksai Chin , claimed by India to belong to Kashmir and by China to be part of Xinjiang , contains an important road link that connects the Chinese regions of Tibet and Xinjiang .
In 1842 , the Sikh Confederacy , which at the time ruled over much of Northern India ( including the frontier regions of Jammu and Kashmir ) , signed a treaty which guaranteed the integrity of Sino-Indian War existing borders with Sino-Indian War neighbours .
The British defeat of the Sikhs in 1846 resulted in transfer of sovereignty over Ladakh , part of the Jammu and Kashmir region , to the British , and British commissioners contacted Chinese officials to negotiate the border .
In 1911 the Xinhai Revolution resulted in power shifts in China , and by 1918 ( in the wake of the Russian Bolshevik Revolution ) the British no longer saw merit in China 's continuing possession of the region .
In 1950 , the Chinese People 's Liberation Army annexed Tibet and later the Chinese extended their influence by building a road in 1956 -- 67 and placing border posts in Aksai Chin .
India found out after the road was completed , protested against these moves and decided to look for a diplomatic solution to ensure a stable Sino-Indian border .
In 1954 , Prime Minister Nehru wrote a memo calling for India 's borders to be clearly defined and demarcated ; in line with previous Indian philosophy , Indian maps showed a border that , in some places , lay north of the McMahon Line .
In 1954 , China and India negotiated the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence , by which the two nations agreed to abide in settling their disputes .
In mid-October , the Communist organ Pravda encouraged peace between India and China .
On 11 September , it was decided that `` all forward posts and patrols were given permission to fire on any armed Chinese who entered Indian territory '' .
A long line of mules and porters had also been observed supporting the buildup and reinforcement of positions south of the Thag La Ridge .
Over the following days , there were clashes between Indian and Chinese patrols at Walong as the Chinese rushed in reinforcements .
Neither side declared war , used their air force , or fully broke off diplomatic relations ; however , Sino-Indian War is commonly referred to as Sino-Indian War .
After Zhou received Nehru 's letter ( rejecting Zhou 's proposal ) , the fighting resumed on the eastern theatre on 14 November ( Nehru 's birthday ) , with an Indian attack on Walong , claimed by China , launched from the defensive position of Se La and inflicting heavy casualties on the Chinese .
This was further triggered by Mao Zedong 's views that : `` The way to world conquest lies through Havana , Accra , and Calcutta '' .
However , Calvin also expresses that China , in the past , has been adamant to gain control over regions to which it has a `` traditional claim '' , which triggered the dispute over NEFA and Aksai Chin and indeed Tibet .
Calvin 's assumption , based on the history of the Cold War and the Domino Effect , assumed that China might ultimately try to regain control of everything that it considers as `` traditionally Chinese '' which in its view includes the entirety of South East Asia .
Any large Chinese Communist attack on any part of that area would require the use of nuclear weapons by the U.S. , and this is to be preferred over the introduction of large numbers of U.S. soldiers '' .
Sino-Indian War remains unclear if his aides were trying to dissuade the President of considering any measure with regard to India by immediately raising the stakes to an unacceptable level , nor is Sino-Indian War clear if Kennedy was thinking of conventional or nuclear means when he gave his reply .
While Western nations did not view Chinese actions favourably because of fear of the Chinese and competitiveness , Pakistan , which had had a turbulent relationship with India ever since the Indian partition , improved its relations with China after Sino-Indian War .
In January 1966 , China condemned the Tashkent Agreement between India and Pakistan as a Soviet-US plot in the region .
China 's first nuclear weapon test in October 1964 and her support of Pakistan in the 1965 India Pakistan War tended to confirm the American view of communist world objectives , including Chinese influence over Pakistan .
One report provided by India shows that in late 1967 , there were two skirmishes between Indian and Chinese forces in Sikkim .
Sino-Indian War is a war between China and India that occurred in 1962 .
In modern terms : the use of two guns at once , one in each hand , is most associated with the American Old West , where revolvers holding only six rounds of ammunition were the highest capacity handguns readily available and reloading was a slow process .
Use of two guns was therefore a reasonable compromise , as this allowed one gun to be cocked as the other is being fired , in practical terms doubling the rate of fire and the available number of bullets .
In modern firearms terminology this is often called a `` New York reload '' after the practice of New York Police Department officers carrying second ( and even third ) guns as backup .
However , the invention of smaller , cheaper submachineguns around the 1950s rendered the tactic largely obsolete and Dual wield fell into relative obscurity .
Rise of the Triad and Marathon , both released on December 21 , 1994 , were the earliest first-person shooters to integrate Dual wield pistols .
Although some animals ( dolphins and bats ) have used sound for communication and object detection for millions of years , use by humans in the water is initially recorded by Leonardo Da Vinci in 1490 : a tube inserted into the water was said to be used to detect vessels by placing an ear to the tube .
The world 's first patent for an underwater echo ranging device was filed at the British Patent Office by English meteorologist Lewis Richardson a month after the sinking of the Titanic , and a German physicist Alexander Behm obtained a patent for an echo sounder in 1913 .
/ ref > The so-called Fessenden oscillator , at ca. 500 Hz frequency , was unable to determine the bearing of the berg due to the 3 metre wavelength and the small dimension of the transducer 's radiating face ( less than 1 metre in diameter ) .
Lightweight sound-sensitive plastic film and fibre optics have been used for hydrophones ( acousto-electric transducers for in-water use ) , while Terfenol-D and PMN ( lead magnesium niobate ) have been developed for projectors .
When more transmitters ( or more receivers ) are used , again spatially separated , Sonar is multistatic operation .
Active sonar is also used to measure distance through water between two sonar transducers or a combination of a hydrophone ( underwater acoustic microphone ) and projector ( underwater acoustic speaker ) .
The time difference , scaled by the speed of sound through water and divided by two , is the distance between the two platforms .
This is an active sonar device that receives a stimulus and immediately ( or with a delay ) retransmits the received signal or a predetermined one .
Even if the reflected signal was of the same power , the following example ( using hypothetical values ) shows the problem : Suppose Sonar is capable of emitting a 10,000 W/m ² signal at 1 m , and detecting a 0.001 W/m ² signal .
Although in World War II active sonar was used by surface craft -- submarines avoided emitting pings which revealed their presence and position -- with the advent of modern signal-processing passive sonar became preferred for initial detection .
This process is called Target Motion Analysis ( TMA ) , and the resultant `` solution '' is the target 's range , course , and speed .
A problem is that the winches required to deploy/recover these are large and expensive .
Mine Countermeasure ( MCM ) Sonar , sometimes called `` Mine and Obstacle Avoidance Sonar ( MOAS ) '' , is a specialised type of sonar used for detecting small objects .
The sound pulse is generated by a transducer that emits an acoustic pulse and then `` listens '' for the return signal .
As the speed of sound in water is around 1,500 metres per second , the time interval , measured in milliseconds , between the pulse being transmitted and the echo being received , allows bottom depth and targets to be measured .
The second type is the cable less net-sounder -- such as Marport 's Trawl Explorer - in which the signals are sent acoustically between the net and hull mounted receiver/hydrophone on the vessel .
Various synthetic aperture sonars have been built in the laboratory and some have entered use in mine-hunting and search systems .
Ariel Sharon ( , , , also known by Ariel Sharon diminutive Arik , , born Ariel Scheinermann , on 26 February 1928 ) is an Israeli statesman and retired general , who served as Israel 's 11th Prime Minister .
After Ariel Sharon assault of the Sinai in the Six-Day War and Ariel Sharon encirclement of the Egyptian Third Army in the Yom Kippur War , the Israeli public nicknamed Ariel Sharon `` The King of Israel '' and `` The Lion of God '' .
Sharon 's unit of the Haganah became engaged in serious and continuous combat from the autumn of 1947 , with the onset of the Battle for Jerusalem .
A year and a half later , on the direct orders of the Prime Minister , Ariel Sharon was asked to return to active service in the rank of major , as the leader of the new Unit 101 , a special forces unit .
The unit was known for raids against Arab civilians and military targets , most notably the widely condemned Qibya massacre in the fall of 1953 , in which 69 Palestinian civilians , some of them children , were killed when Sharon 's troops attacked the village and dynamited buildings there in a reprisal for a fedayeen attack in Yehud .
Incidents , such as those involving Meir Har-Zion , along with many others , contributed to the tension between the Prime Minister Moshe Sharett , who often opposed Sharon 's raids , and Moshe Dayan , who had become increasingly ambiguous towards Ariel Sharon .
Sharon , whose forces were initially heading east , away from the pass , reported to Ariel Sharon superiors that Ariel Sharon was increasingly concerned with the possibility of an enemy thrust through the pass , which could attack Ariel Sharon brigade from the flank or the rear .
Ariel Sharon sent a small scout force , which was met with heavy fire and became bogged down due to vehicle malfunction in the middle of the pass .
Sharon 's actions were in response to reports of the arrival of the 1st and 2nd Brigades of the 4th Egyptian Armored Division in the area , which Sharon believed would annihilate Ariel Sharon forces if Ariel Sharon did not seize the high ground .
A total of 260 Egyptian and 38 Israeli soldiers were killed during the battle at Mitla .
Researchers at the United States Army Training and Doctrine Command studied Sharon 's operational planning , concluding that it involved a number of unique innovations .
As a result , instead of supporting and covering each other as they were designed to do , each Egyptian unit was left fighting for its own life .
On Ariel Sharon settlement policy , Sharon said while addressing a meeting of the Tzomet party : `` Everybody has to move , run and grab as many ( Judean ) hilltops as they can to enlarge the ( Jewish ) settlements because everything we take now will stay ours ... Everything we do n't grab will go to them '' .
During the 1982 Lebanon War , while Ariel Sharon was Defense Minister , the Sabra and Shatila massacre occurred between 16 September and 18 .
Between 800 and 3,500 Palestinian civilians in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps were killed by the Phalanges -- Lebanese Maronite Christian militias .
The Security Chief of the Phalange militia , Elie Hobeika , was the ground commander of the militiamen who entered the Palestinian camps and killed the Palestinians .
Defense Minister Ariel Sharon , in a statement , tied the killing of the Phalangist leader Gemayel to the PLO , saying : `` It symbolises the terrorist murderousness of the PLO terrorist organisations and their supporters '' .
The investigative Kahan Commission ( 1982 ) found the Israeli Defence Forces indirectly responsible for the massacre , as the IDF. held the area , and that no Israeli was directly responsible for the events which occurred in the camps .
In Benjamin Netanyahu 's 1996 -- 1999 government , Ariel Sharon was Minister of National Infrastructure ( 1996 -- 98 ) , and Foreign Minister ( 1998 -- 99 ) .
Once it became clear that the evictions were definitely going ahead a group of conservative Rabbis , led by Rabbi Yosef Dayan , placed an ancient curse on Ariel Sharon known as the Pulsa diNura , calling on the Angel of Death to intervene and kill Ariel Sharon .
While Ariel Sharon decision to withdraw from Gaza sparked bitter protests from members of the Likud party and the settler movement , opinion polls showed that it was a popular move among most of the Israeli electorate with more than 80 % of Israelis backing the plans .
According to Haaretz , `` The $ 3 million that parachuted into Gilad and Omri Sharon 's bank account toward the end of 2002 was transferred there in the context of a consultancy contract for development of kolkhozes ( collective farms ) in Russia .
Doctors continued to try to find out how the blood clot got to the brain , and an echocardiogram revealed a small hole in Ariel Sharon heart , which doctors judged was probably a birth defect .
Following the operation , hospital director Shlomo Mor-Yosef reported Sharon 's bleeding had stopped , Ariel Sharon brain was functioning without artificial support , and that Ariel Sharon was receiving medication to prevent further bleeding .
Olmert and the Cabinet announced that the legislative elections would take place on 28 March as scheduled .
Modern nations and ethnic groups called by the ethnonym Slavic peoples are considerably diverse both genetically and culturally , and relations between them -- even within the individual ethnic groups themselves -- are varied , ranging from a sense of connection to feelings of mutual hostility .
In the 6th century CE Procopius , writing in Byzantine Greek , refers to the Sklaboi , Sklabēnoi , Sklauenoi , Sthlauenoi , or Σκλαβῖνοι Sklabinoi , while his contemporary Jordanes refers to the Sclaveni in Latin .
The latter word may be the derivation of words to denote German/Germanic people in many later Slavic languages : e.g. , Czech , Slovak , Slovene Nemec , Belarusian , Russian and Bulgarian , Serbian , Serbian , Bosnian and Croatian , Polish , Ukrainian , etc. , but another theory states that rather these words are derived from the name of the Nemetes tribe , which is derived from the Celtic root nemeto - .
B.P. Lozinski argues that the word slava once had the meaning of worshipper , in this context meaning `` practicer of a common Slavic religion , '' and from that evolved into an ethnonym .
Despite the various notions of Slavic peoples , it is unclear whether any of these descriptions add to an accurate representation of that group 's history , since historians , such as George Vernadsky , Florin Curta , and Michael Karpovich have called into question how , why , and to what degree Slavic peoples were cohesive as a society between the 6th and 9th centuries .
Archaeologists face difficulties in distinguishing which finds are truly Slavic and which are not .
The variety of names from historiographic texts that refer to the Slavs , such as the Antes , Sclaveni , and Venethi , in addition to the locales and regions which Slavic peoples at one point or another occupied , makes Slavic peoples laborious to establish a geographical boundary for major Slavic settlement .
While earlier texts contextualize the Slavs ' early history and later development , texts written about an event long after Slavic peoples had occurred make the relevant information less reliable .
The use of ethnic identifiers in written texts during and after the 500s , such as the description of the Slavic peoples as Antes , Sclaveni , and Venethi by their immediate neighbors , produces problems .
Florin Curta , an expert on the history of the early Slavic peoples , contends that the process of creating such a history `` was a function of both ethnic formation and ethnic identification '' .
The works of Slovak philologist and poet Pavel Jozef Šafárik ( 1795 -- 1861 ) has influenced generations of scholars .
A. A. Spicyn ( 1858 -- 1931 ) assigned to the Antes the finds of silver and bronze in central and southern Ukraine .
Boris Rybakov , has issued a theory that made a link between both Spicyn 's `` Antian antiquities '' and the remains excavated by Khvoika from Chernyakhov culture and that those should be should be attributed to Slavic peoples .
The relationship between Slavic peoples and a tribe called the Veneti east of the river Vistula in the Roman period is uncertain .
For these nations , the Sclaveni and the Antae , are not ruled by one man , but they have lived from of old under a democracy , and consequently everything which involves their welfare , whether for good or for ill , is referred to the people .
The Chernoles culture ( 8th to 3rd centuries BCE , sometimes associated with the `` Scythian farmers '' of Herodotus ) is `` sometimes portrayed as either a state in the development of the Slavic languages or at least some form of late Indo-European ancestral to the evolution of the Slavic stock '' .
The Milograd culture ( 700 BCE - 100 CE ) , centered roughly on present-day Belarus , north of the contemporaneous Chernoles culture , has also been proposed as ancestral to either Slavic peoples or Balts .
The ethnic composition of the bearers of the Przeworsk culture ( 2nd century BCE to the 4th century CE , associated with the Lugii ) of central and southern Poland , northern Slovakia and Ukraine , including the Zarubintsy culture ( 2nd century BCE to the 2nd century CE , also connected with the Bastarnae tribe ) and the Oksywie culture are other candidates .
The area of southern Ukraine is known to have been inhabited by Scythian and Sarmatian tribes prior to the foundation of the Gothic kingdom .
Proto-Slavic is thus likely to have reached Slavic peoples final stage in the Kiev area ; there is , however , substantial disagreement in the scientific community over the identity of the Kiev culture 's predecessors , with some scholars tracing Slavic peoples from the Ruthenian Milograd culture , others from the `` Ukrainian '' Chernoles and Zarubintsy cultures and still others from the `` Polish '' Przeworsk culture .
The modern Slavic peoples carry a variety of Mitochondrial DNA haplogroups and Y-chromosome DNA haplogroups .
Marcin Woźniak and colleagues ( 2010 ) searched for specifically Slavic sub-group of R1a1a M17 .
Recently , Ken Nordtvedt has split I2a2 into two clades - N ( northern ) and S ( southern ) , in relation where Slavic peoples arose compared to Danube river .
He recalculated the age of I2a2 to be ~ 2550 years and proposed that the current distribution is explained by a Slavic expansion from the area north-east of the Carpathians .
There is a much lower level of I2a2a among Greeks and Albanians ( including those in Kosovo and R. of Macedonia ) , which retain their non-Slavic languages , than in present-day majority South Slavic-speaking nations .
Malyarchuk said the `` Russian population '' was developed by the `` assimilation of the indigenous pre-Slavic population of Eastern Europe by true Slavic peoples '' with additional `` assimilation of Finno-Ugric populations '' and `` long-lasting '' interactions with the populations of `` Siberia '' and `` Central Asia '' .
Malyarchuk said that other Slavic peoples `` Mongoloid component '' was increased during the waves of migration from `` steppe populations ( Huns , Avars , Bulgars and Mongols ) '' , especially the decay of the `` Avar Khaganate '' .
In the 7th century , the Frankish merchant Samo , who supported Slavic peoples fighting their Avar rulers , became the ruler of the first known Slavic peoples state in Central Europe , which , however , most probably did not outlive its founder and ruler .
In this period , there existed central Slavic groups and states such as the Balaton Principality , but the subsequent expansion of the Magyars , as well as the Germanisation of Austria , separated the northern and southern Slavic peoples .
The Thracians and Illyrians vanished from the population during this period - although the modern Albanian nation claims to be the descendent of the Illyrian race .
The Romance speakers within the fortified Dalmatian cities managed to retain their culture and language for a long time , as Dalmatian Romance was spoken until the high Middle Ages .
In the 11th and 12th centuries , constant incursions by nomadic Turkic tribes , such as the Kipchaks and the Pechenegs , caused a massive migration of East Slavic populations to the safer , heavily forested regions of the north .
In the Middle Ages , groups of Saxon ore miners settled in medieval Bosnia , Serbia and Bulgaria where they were Slavicised .
Cossacks , although Slavic-speaking and Orthodox Christians , came from a mix of ethnic backgrounds , including Tatars and other Turks .
Because of the vastness and diversity of the territory occupied by Slavic peoples , there were several centers of Slavic consolidation .
Some of the conclusions reached by physical anthropologists have recently been disproven by molecular and DNA technology ; however , Slavic peoples remains useful in describing general phenotypic variations between populations .
Proto-Slavic , the supposed ancestor language of all Slavic languages , is a descendant of common Proto-Indo-European , via a Balto-Slavic stage in which it developed numerous lexical and morphophonological isoglosses with the Baltic languages .
Proto-Slavic , sometimes referred to as Common Slavic or Late Proto-Slavic , is defined as the last stage of the language preceding the geographical split of the historical Slavic languages .
The Orthodox use the Cyrillic alphabet and the Roman Catholics use Latin alphabet , the Bosniaks which are Muslims also use the Latin .
Slavic peoples is a society between the 6th and 9th centuries .
The Earth Resources Experiment Package ( EREP ) was used to view the Earth with sensors that recorded data in the visible , infrared , and microwave spectral regions .
Skylab was no longer necessary for such purposes , and the United States program to send men to the moon , Project Apollo , was designed to not require in-orbit assembly .
Studies generally looked at platforms launched by the Saturn V , followed up by crews launched on Saturn IB using an Apollo Command/Service Module , or a Gemini capsule on a Titan II-C , the latter being much less expensive in the case where cargo was not needed .
The station filled the entire interior of the S-II stage 's hydrogen tank , with the equipment section forming a `` spine '' and living quarters located between Skylab and the walls of the booster .
On 1 April 1966 , MSC sent out contracts to Douglas , Grumman , and McDonnell for the conversion of a S-IVB spent stage , under the name Saturn S-IVB spent-stage experiment support module ( SSESM ) .
In August 1967 , the agency announced that the lunar mapping and base construction missions examined by the AAP were being canceled .
With the extra power available , the wet workshop was no longer needed ; the S-IC and S-II lower stages could launch a `` dry workshop '' , with Skylab interior already prepared , directly into orbit .
Skylab ample size -- much greater than that of the shuttle alone , or even the shuttle plus Spacelab -- was enough , with some modifications , for up to seven astronauts of both sexes , and experiments needing a long duration in space ; even a movie projector for recreation was possible .
The San Francisco Examiner offered a $ 10,000 prize for the first piece of Skylab delivered to Skylab offices ; the competing Chronicle offered $ 200,000 if a subscriber suffered personal or property damage .
NASA calculated that the odds of station re-entry debris hitting a human were 1 to 152 and the odds of any particular person being hit were 1 in 600 billion , although the odds of debris hitting a city of 100,000 or more were 1 to 7 and special teams were readied to head to any country hit by debris and requesting help .
Residents and an airline pilot saw dozens of colorful fireworks-like flares as large pieces broke up in the atmosphere .
A Philadelphia businessman flew him , his parents , and girlfriend to San Francisco , where he collected the Examiner prize .
StrongARM was a collaborative project between DEC and Advanced RISC Machines to create a faster ARM microprocessor .
The first versions , operating at 100 , 160 , and 200 MHz , were announced on 5 February 1996 .
StrongARM used a power supply with a variable voltage of 1.2 to 2.2 volts ( V ) to enable designs to find a balance between power consumption and performance ( higher voltages enable higher clock rates ) .
StrongARM is a collaborative project between DEC and Advanced RISC Machines to create a faster ARM microprocessor .
Stasi ( German : Stasi , MfS ) , commonly known as the Stasi ( abbreviation , literally State Security ) , was the official state security service of the German Democratic Republic or GDR , colloquially known as East Germany .
The Stasi motto was `` Schild und Schwert der Partei '' ( Shield and Sword of the Party ) , that is the ruling Socialist Unity Party of Germany ( SED ) .
Zaisser , who tried to depose SED General Secretary Walter Ulbricht after the June 1953 uprising , was after this removed by Ulbricht and replaced by Ernst Wollweber .
Collaboration was so close that the KGB invited the Stasi to establish operational bases in Moscow and Leningrad to monitor visiting East German tourists and Mielke referred to the Stasi officers as `` Chekists of the Soviet Union '' .
Between 1950 and 1989 , the Stasi employed a total of 274,000 people in an effort to root out the class enemy .
In terms of the identity of inoffizielle Mitarbeiter ( IMs ) Stasi informants , by 1995 , 174,000 had been identified , which approximated 2.5 % of East Germany 's population between the ages of 18 and 60 .
The Stasi had formal categorizations of each type of informant , and had official guidelines on how to extract information from , and control , those who they came into contact with .
A large number of Stasi informants were trolley conductors , janitors , doctors , nurses and teachers ; Mielke believed the best informants were those whose jobs entailed frequent contact with the public .
By the 1970s , the Stasi had decided that methods of overt persecution which had been employed up to that time , such as arrest and torture , were too crude and obvious .
It was realised that psychological harassment was far less likely to be recognised for what Stasi was , so Stasi victims , and their supporters , were less likely to be provoked into active resistance , given that Stasi would often not be aware of the source of their problems , or even Stasi exact nature .
The plan specified 2,587 OibE officers who would take over power ( Offiziere im besonderen Einsatz , `` officers on special assignment '' ) and it was registered as Top Secret Document 0008-6/86 of 17 March 1986 .
Pacepa has noted that what happened in Russia and how KGB Colonel Vladimir Putin took over Russia resembles these plans .
For example , in 1990 , Herbert Kohler , Stasi commander in Dresden , transferred 170 million marks to Schlaff for `` harddisks '' and months later went to work for him .
Pastor Rainer Eppelmann , who became Minister of Defense and Disarmament after March 1990 , felt that new political freedoms for former Stasi members would be jeopardized by acts of revenge .
Other opinions , such as the one of West German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schäuble , believed in putting the Stasi behind them and working on German reunification .
The fate of the files was finally decided under the Unification Treaty between the GDR and Federal Republic of Germany ( FRG ) .
Some of Stasi is very easy due to the number of archives and the failure of shredding machines ( in some cases `` shredding '' meant tearing paper in two by hand and documents could be recovered easily ) .
In the new millennium , Sandra Bullock appeared in such films as Miss Congeniality , The Lake House , and Crash , the third of which received critical acclaim .
Bullock was born in Arlington , Virginia , a suburb of Washington , D.C. Sandra Bullock father , John W. Bullock ( born 1925 ) , was a United States Army employee and part-time voice coach from Birmingham , Alabama ; and Sandra Bullock mother , Helga D. Meyer ( 1942 -- 2000 ) , was a German opera singer and voice teacher .
Sandra was asked to return Sandra Bullock 2009 `` Worst Actress of the Year '' Razzie award ; however , this was n't because of a change of heart for Bullock 's performance but because Bullock personally accepted Sandra Bullock Razzie and accidentally took the original one-of-a-kind prototype Razzie , as opposed to the cheap trinket normally handed out to celebrities .
Sandra Bullock father , John Bullock , is the company 's CEO , and Sandra Bullock sister , Gesine Bullock-Prado , is the former president .
In November 2009 , Sandra Bullock and James entered into a custody battle with James ' second ex-wife , former pornographic actress Janine Lindemulder , with whom James had a child .
James declared that `` There is only one person to blame for this whole situation , and that is Sandra Bullock '' , and asked that his wife and children one day `` find it in their hearts to forgive Sandra Bullock '' for their current `` pain and embarrassment '' .
On April 18 , 2008 , while Bullock was in Massachusetts shooting the film The Proposal , Sandra Bullock and Sandra Bullock then-husband were in an SUV that was hit head-on ( driver 's side offset ) at moderate speed by a drunken driver .
Using an Irish-produced magnetic system -- on which animated characters were attached to a painted background , and then photographed through a 45 degree mirror -- he persuaded Peter Firmin , who was then teaching at the Central School of Art , to create the background scenes .
This resulted in the Firmin-produced characters looking like Smallfilms were short in one leg , but the success of the production provided the foundation for Postgate and Firmin to start up their own company solely producing animated children 's programmes .
Setting up their business in a disused cowshed at Firmin 's home in Blean near Canterbury , Kent , Postgate and Firmin worked on children 's animation programmes .
Based on concepts which mostly originated with Postgate , Firmin did the artwork and built the models , while Postgate wrote the scripts , did the stop motion filming and many of the voices .
In 2000 Oliver and his friend Loaf set up a small publishing company called the Dragons Friendly Society to look after Noggin the Nog , Pogles Wood , Pingwings .
While the storylines and production were remembered by children , the adult jokes like those about the Welsh in `` Ivor the Engine , '' or the fact that the Clangers swore occasionally ; gave them both an instant parent engagement as well as a later revival with children who had grown up and were re-watching their favourite programmes .
Luddites and radical labor unions such as the Industrial Workers of the World ( IWW ) have advocated sabotage as a means of self-defense and direct action against unfair working conditions .
This tactic -- the French called Sabotage `` sabotage '' -- won the strikers their demands and impressed Bill Haywood .
Sabotage in warfare , according to the OSS manual , varies from highly technical coup de main acts that require detailed planning and the use of specially trained operatives , to innumerable simple acts which the ordinary individual citizen-saboteur can perform .
The `` human element '' is based on universal opportunities to make faulty decisions , to adopt a non-cooperative attitude , and to induce others to follow suit .
The United States Office of Strategic Services , later renamed the CIA , noted specific value in committing simple sabotage against the enemy during wartime : `` slashing tires , draining fuel tanks , starting fires , starting arguments , acting stupidly , short-circuiting electric systems , abrading machine parts will waste materials , manpower , and time '' .
On 11 January 1917 , Fiodore Wozniak , using a rag saturated with phosphorus or an incendiary pencil supplied by German sabotage agents , set fire to his workbench at an ammunition assembly plant near Kingsland , NY , causing a four-hour fire that destroyed half a million 3-inch explosive shells and destroyed the plant for an estimated at 17 million in damages .
German records count 1,429 instances of sabotage from French Resistance forces between January 1942 and February 1943 .
On 1 January 1984 , the Cuscatlan bridge over Lempa river in El Salvador , critical to flow of commercial and military traffic , was destroyed by guerilla forces using explosives after using mortar fire to `` scatter '' the bridge 's guards , causing an estimated 3.7 million dollars in required repairs , and considerably impacted El Salvadoran business and security .
In 1982 in Honduras , a group of nine Salvadorans and Nicaraguans destroyed a main electrical power station , leaving Tegucigalpa , the capital city , for three days without power .
Simple sabotage against physical communications platforms using semi-skilled technicians , or even those trained only for this task , could effectively silence the target government of the coup , leaving the information battle space open to the dominance of the coup 's leaders .
They dub the practitioners of cybotage `` cyboteurs '' and note while all cybotage is not netwar , some netwar is cybotage .
Counter-sabotage , defined by Webster 's dictionary , is `` counterintelligence designed to detect and counteract Sabotage .
The United States Department of Defense definition , found in the Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms , is `` Action designed to detect and counteract sabotage .
Photos of the plant taken from the air reflected devastation for the factory and a successful sabotage mission , and Chapman , as a British sabotage double-agent , fooled the Germans for the duration of the war .
Many scabbards like the ones the Greeks and Romans used were small and light .
Some well-known examples of this include the back scabbard depicted in the movie Braveheart and the back scabbard seen in the video game series The Legend of Zelda .
However in `` The Ancient Celts '' by Barry Cunliffe , on page 94 of that book , Professor Cunliffe writes , `` All these pieces of equipment shields , spears , swords , mail armour , mentioned in the texts , are reflected in the archaeological record and in the surviving iconography , though it is sometimes possible to detect regional variations .
Among the Parisii of Yorkshire , for example , Scabbard was sometimes worn across the back and therefore had to be drawn over the shoulder from behind the head '' '' .
One of the major issues relating to the use of speech recognition in healthcare is that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ( ARRA ) provides for substantial financial benefits to physicians who utilize an EMR according to `` Meaningful Use '' standards .
The USAF , USMC , US Army , US Navy , and FAA as well as a number of international ATC training organizations such as the Royal Australian Air Force and Civil Aviation Authorities in Italy , Brazil , and Canada are currently using ATC simulators with Speech recognition from a number of different vendors .
ROILA is constructed on the basis of two important goals , firstly Speech recognition should be learnable by the human user and secondly , the language should be optimized for efficient recognition by a robot .
Another reason why HMMs are popular is because Speech recognition can be trained automatically and are simple and computationally feasible to use .
Each word , or ( for more general speech recognition systems ) , each phoneme , will have a different output distribution ; a hidden Markov model for a sequence of words or phonemes is made by concatenating the individual trained hidden Markov models for the separate words and phonemes .
Rescoring is usually done by trying to minimize the Bayes risk ( or an approximation thereof ) : Instead of taking the source sentence with maximal probability , we try to take the sentence that minimizes the expectancy of a given loss function with regards to all possible transcriptions ( i.e. , we take the sentence that minimizes the average distance to other possible sentences weighted by their estimated probability ) .
Dynamic time warping is an algorithm for measuring similarity between two sequences that may vary in time or speed .
Conferences in the field of natural language processing , such as ACL , NAACL , EMNLP , and HLT , are beginning to include papers on speech processing .
A most recent comprehensive textbook , `` Fundamentals of Speaker Recognition '' by Homayoon Beigi , is an in depth source for up to date details on the theory and practice .
Another resource ( free as in free beer , not as in free speech ) is the HTK book ( and the accompanying HTK toolkit ) .
Another area of research is better understanding of human capabilities and to use this understanding to improve machine recognition performance .
Speech recognition is speech to text '' , or just `` STT '' .
Violet and purple can contribute to the overall beauty of the color , while green is considered to be distinctly negative .
Gray reduces the saturation or brightness of the hue and therefore , has a distinctly negative effect .
Certain synthetic color-change `` sapphires '' are sold as `` lab '' or `` synthetic '' alexandrite , which more accurately is called an alexandrite simulant ( also called alexandrium ) since the latter is a type of chrysoberyl -- an entirely different substance whose pleochroism is different and much more pronounced than color-change corundum ( sapphire ) .
If Fe2 + and Ti4 + ions are substituted for Al3 + , localized areas of charge imbalance are created .
Treated padparadschas may be very difficult to detect , and many stones are certified by gemological labs ( e.g. , Gubelin , SSEF , AGTA ) .
In the Verneuil process , named for him , fine alumina powder is added to an oxyhydrogen flame , and this is directed downward against a mantle .
The alumina crystallizes on the end , creating long carrot-shaped boules of large size , up to 400 mm in diameter and weighing almost 500 kg .
Synthetic sapphire is industrially produced from agglomerated aluminium oxide , sintered and fused in an inert atmosphere ( hot isostatic pressing for example ) , yielding a transparent polycrystalline product , slightly porous , or with more traditional methods such as Verneuil , Czochralski , flux method , etc. , yielding a single crystal sapphire material which is non-porous and should be relieved of Sapphire internal stress .
Sapphire glass windows are used in high pressure chambers for spectroscopy , crystals in various watches , and windows in grocery store barcode scanners since the material 's exceptional hardness and toughness makes Sapphire very resistant to scratching .
One type of xenon arc lamp ( originally called the `` Cermax '' Sapphire first brand name ) , which is now known generically as the `` ceramic body xenon lamp '' , uses sapphire crystal output windows that tolerate higher thermal loads -- and thus higher output powers when compared with conventional Xe lamps with pure silica window .
`` SOS '' allows for the monolithic integration of both digital and analog circuitry all on one IC chip .
Anoa , also known as midget buffalo and sapiutan , are a subgenus of Bubalus comprising two species native to Indonesia : the mountain anoa ( Anoa ) and the lowland anoa ( Bubalus depressicornis ) .
Wu Chinese `` muddy '' consonants are slack voice , the primary effect of which is a slightly breathy quality of the following vowel Javanese contrasts slack and stiff voiced bilabial , dental , retroflex , and velar stops .
The contrast is between `` slightly stiff '' and `` slightly breathy '' vowels ; the first are between modal and stiff voice , while the latter are captured by slack voice .
`` Salvation '' distinguishes a notion common to men and women of a wide range of cultural traditions .
The Christian religion , though not the exclusive possessor of the idea of redemption , has given to Salvation a special definiteness and a dominant position .
Taken in Salvation widest sense , as deliverance from dangers and ills in general , most religions teach some form of Salvation .
God as the universal spirit and Creator of the World , is the source of all salvation for humanity , provided an individual honours God by observing his precepts .
Judaism of the second Temple period ( and prior ) considered the concept of salvation more national ( corporate ) than exclusively personal ( as Christianity views Salvation ) .
Belief in the `` One God '' , also known as the Tawhidd in Arabic , consists of two parts ( or principles ) : Some Muslim scholars break the Tawhid into further parts by breaking Tawheedo Al Ruboobeeya into multiple parts putting emphases on some of the attributes of God that they see being vastly ignored , or forgotten , in their respective times .
Theravada Buddhism teaches that in this quest one can rely on no one and on nothing but oneself : neither gods nor priests , neither church nor sacraments , nor faith nor works are of any avail .
A carrier-based , subsonic , all-weather , multi-mission aircraft with long range , Lockheed S-3 Viking carried automated weapon systems , and was capable of extended missions with in-flight refueling .
Lockheed recognised that Lockheed S-3 Viking had little recent experience in designing carrier based aircraft , so Ling-Temco-Vought ( LTV ) was brought into the team , being responsible for the folding wings and tail , the engine nacelles , and the landing gear , which was derived from A-7 Corsair II ( nose ) and F-8 Crusader ( main ) .
The first prototype flew on 21 January 1972 and Lockheed S-3 Viking entered service in 1974 .
Because Lockheed S-3 Viking were standoff indications and warnings platforms and were never intended to be part of an ingress strike package , this new speed limitation was considered insignificant .
Previous ASW aircraft like the Lockheed P-3 Orion and S-3 's predecessor , the Grumman S-2 Tracker , featured separate instrumentation and controls for each sensor system .
On 20 February 1974 , Lockheed S-3 Viking officially became operational with the Air Antisubmarine Squadron FORTY-ONE ( VS-41 ) , the `` Shamrocks , '' at NAS North Island , California , which served as the initial S-3 Fleet Replacement Squadron ( FRS ) for both the Atlantic and Pacific Fleets until a separate Atlantic Fleet FRS , VS-27 , was established in the 1980s .
Lockheed S-3 Viking , designated US-3A , were converted for a specialized utility and limited cargo COD requirement .
The Maverick Plus System ( MPS ) added the capability to employ the AGM-65E laser-guided or AGM-65F infrared-guided AGM-65 Maverick air-to-surface missile , and the AGM-84H / K Stand-off Land Attack Missile Expanded Response ( SLAM/ER ) .
The Navy established two squadrons of eight ES-3A aircraft each in both the Atlantic and Pacific Fleets to provide detachments of typically two aircraft , ten officers , and 55 enlisted aircrew , maintenance and support personnel ( which comprised/supported four complete aircrews ) to deploying carrier air wings .
Though a proposed airframe known as the Common Support Aircraft was once advanced as a successor to the S-3 , E-2 and C-2 , this plan failed to materialize .
This supported Navy plans to retire all Vikings from front-line Fleet service by 2009 so new strike fighter and multi-mission aircraft could be introduced to recapitalize the aging Fleet inventory , with former Viking missions assumed by other fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft .
This was one of the few times in Lockheed S-3 Viking long and distinguished operational history that the S-3B Viking had been employed overland on an offensive combat air strike and the first time Lockheed S-3 Viking launched a laser-guided Maverick missile in combat .
A significant factor in the reopening of the production line was that the Navy 's Sikorsky SH-60 Sea Hawk , which was newer and more capable in anti-submarine operations , was too large to be operated from the small flight decks of older frigates .
Upon enactment of the 1962 United States Tri-Service aircraft designation system , the HU2K-1 was redesignated UH-2A and the HU2K-1U was redesignated UH-2B .
Beginning in 1987 , 16 SH-2Fs were upgraded with chin mounted Forward Looking Infrared Sensors ( FLIR ) , Chaff ( AIRBOC ) / Flares , dual rear mounted IR scramblers , and Missile/Mine detecting equipment .
In 1991 , the US Navy began to receive deliveries of the new SH-2G Super Seasprite ; a total of 18 converted SH-2Fs and 6 new-built SH-2Gs were produced .
The Royal New Zealand Navy ( RNZN ) replaced Kaman SH-2 Seasprite Westland Wasps with four interim SH-2F Seasprites ( ex-US Navy ) , operated and maintained by a mix of Navy and Air Force personnel known as No. 3 Squadron RNZAF Naval Support Flight , to operate with ANZAC class frigates until the fleet of five new SH-2G Super Seasprites were delivered .
Agner Krarup Erlang ( 1 January 1878 -- 3 February 1929 ) was a Danish mathematician , statistician and engineer , who invented the fields of traffic engineering and queueing theory .
Agner Krarup Erlang early work in scrutinizing the use of local , exchange and trunk telephone line usage in a small community , to understand the theoretical requirements of an efficient network led to the creation of the Erlang formula , which became a foundational element of present day telecommunication network studies .
Agner Krarup Erlang is the son of a schoolmaster , and a descendant of Thomas Fincke on his mother 's side .
All languages in the world have stops , and most have at least the voiceless stops , , and .
However , there are exceptions : Colloquial Samoan lacks the coronal , and several North American languages , such as the northern Iroquoian and southern Iroquoian languages ( i.e. , Cherokee ) , lack the labial .
In fact , the labial is the least stable of the voiceless stops in the languages of the world , as the unconditioned sound change → is quite common in unrelated languages , having occurred in the history of Classical Japanese , Classical Arabic , and Proto-Celtic , for instance .
In English , however , initial voiced stops like or may have no voicing during the period of occlusion , or the voicing may start shortly before the release and continue after release , though word-final stops tend to be fully voiced : In most dialects of English , the final g in the bag is likely to be fully voiced , while the initial b will only be voiced during part of Plosive occlusion .
Swahili is well known for having words beginning with prenasalized stops , as in ndege ` bird ' , and is many languages of the South Pacific , such as Fijian , these are even spelled with single letters : b mb , d nd .
Also , the success rate for a game contract in a major suit when a partnership has a combined holding of 26 points and eight cards in the major is about 80 % , whereas a game contract in 3NT with 26 ( HCP ) has a success rate of only 60 % , or 50 % with 25 HCP ; the success rate for a minor suit game contract when holding 26 points is about 30 % .
This bid promises four cards in at least one of the major suits and , in standard form , enough strength to continue bidding after partner 's response ( 8 HCP for an invitational bid opposite a standard 1NT showing 15-17 HCP or 5 HCP to go to game opposite a standard 2NT showing 20-21 points ) .
Over these bids , the notrump bidder ( 1 ) with a maximum hand ( 17 HCP ) , goes to game over an invitational bid and ( 2 ) with four ( or more ) cards in each major suit , corrects to the previously unbid major suit .
For example , if South opens 1 NT , and West overcalls 2 Diamonds , North , if he has adequate values , may call 3 Diamonds , invoking Stayman convention .
When the notrump bidder 's partner does not invoke Stayman convention but instead calls 2 Hearts or 2 Spades , it is a sign of relative weakness , the contract would likely be set .
Stayman convention ( see below ) provides an alternative method to show a five-card major and game-going values .
Stayman convention allows a partnership to find either a 5-3 fit , 6-3 and 6-2 fit while ensuring that the notrump opener , who has the stronger hand , will be declarer .
This conventional bid shows a weak hand with at least four cards in each major suit , asking the Notrump bidder to choose between the major suits at the cheapest level by either passing the 2 bid or correcting to 2 .
In the original Precision Club system , forcing and non-forcing Stayman convention are differentiated in the start : 2 by responder shows only invitational values ( and the continuation is the same as in basic Stayman convention ) , while 2 is forcing to game ( responder bids 2NT without majors ) .
Puppet Stayman convention , initially developed by Neil Silverman and refined by Kit Woolsey and Steve Robinson in 1977-78 , is a variation of Stayman convention designed to find a 5-3 fit in a major , augmenting the search for a 4-4 major fit by standard Stayman convention .
As in standard Stayman convention , Puppet Stayman begins with a 2 response to a 1NT opening and is at least game invitational ; this asks opener to bid a 5-card major if he has one and otherwise to bid 2 .
More full-line stores followed with Detroit , Michigan , in 1940 and Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , in 1949 .
In December 1941 , with U.S. involvement in war soon expected on both the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans , Rear Admiral Ben Moreell , Chief of the Navy 's Bureau of Yards and Docks , recommended establishing Seabee at a newly constructed base at Davisville , Rhode Island ( part of North Kingstown ) .
Because of the emphasis on experience and skill rather than physical standards , the average age of Seabee during the early days of the war was 37 .
These `` Civic Action Teams '' continued into the Vietnam War where Seabee , often fending off enemy forces alongside their Marine and Army counterparts , also built schools and infrastructure and provided health care service .
Beginning in 1965 , full Seabee battalions ( MCBs ) and Naval Construction Regiments ( NCRs ) , along with other unit types , were deployed throughout Vietnam .
After moving to the Beirut International Airport and setting up quarters there , Druse militia artillery began harassing the Marines .
After consultations with the theater commander and Marine amphibious command and combat engineers , the forward deployed battalion in Rota Spain sent in a work party with heavy equipment .
During the Persian Gulf War , more than 5,000 Seabee ( 4,000 active and 1,000 reservists ) served in the Middle East .
In Afghanistan , the Seabee main task has been the construction of multiple Forward Operating Bases for U.S. and coalition forces .
The 2nd NCB commanded Atlantic Fleet Seabee units and the 3rd NCB commanded Pacific Fleet Seabee units .
When first organized during WWII , these units consisted of approximately one-fourth the personnel of an NCB and were intended to take over the maintenance of bases on which major construction had been completed .
Today , CBMU 's provide public works support at Naval Support Activities , Forward Operating Bases , and Fleet Hospital/Expeditionary Medical Facilities during wartime or contingency operations .
SRG 's are regimental-level command groups tasked with administrative and tactical control of Construction Battalion Centers ( CBC ) and Seabee permanently assigned NCF units when in homeport .
Currently the TWENTIETH Seabee Readiness Group ( 20th SRG ) is based at CBC Gulfport , and the THIRTY-FIRST Seabee Readiness Group ( 31st SRG ) is based at CBC Port Hueneme .
E-1 through E-3 Seabees use the designation Constructionman and wear sky-blue stripes on their dress and service uniforms .
The first verse of the song , however , is usually the only verse to be sung or played at official functions .
The Seabee Museum and Memorial Park in Davisville , Rhode Island , was opened in the late 1990s by a group of former Seabee .
Lately , the term ` supertall ' has arisen for the current generation of Skyscraper with a structural height of 300 m and more .
The term `` skyscraper '' was first applied to buildings of steel framed construction of at least 10 storeys in the late 19th century , a result of public amazement at the tall buildings being built in major cities like Chicago , New York City , Detroit , and St. Louis .
The steel frame developed in stages of increasing self-sufficiency , with several buildings in Chicago and New York advancing the technology that allowed the steel frame to carry a building on Skyscraper own .
Skyscraper , in name and social function , is a modern expression of the age-old symbol of the world center or axis mundi : a pillar that connects earth to heaven and the four compass directions to one another .
Cairo in the 16th century had high-rise apartment buildings where the two lower floors were for commercial and storage purposes and the multiple storeys above them were rented out to tenants .
Built in 1797 , Skyscraper is seen as the `` grandfather of skyscrapers '' , since Skyscraper fireproof combination of cast iron columns and cast iron beams developed into the modern steel frame that made modern skyscrapers possible .
Burnham and Root 's 1889 Rand McNally Building in Chicago , 1889 , was the first all-steel framed skyscraper , while Louis Sullivan 's Wainwright Building in St. Louis , Missouri , 1891 , was the first steel-framed building with soaring vertical bands to emphasize the height of Skyscraper and is therefore considered by some to be the first true skyscraper .
After an early competition between Chicago and New York City for the world 's tallest building , New York took the lead by 1895 with the completion of the American Surety Building , leaving New York with the title of Skyscraper for many years .
From the 1930s onwards , Skyscraper began to appear around the world - also in Latin America ( such as São Paulo , Rio de Janeiro , Buenos Aires , Santiago , Caracas , Bogotá , Mexico City ) and in Asia ( Tokyo , Shanghai , Hong Kong , Manila , Singapore , Mumbai , Seoul , Kuala Lumpur , Taipei , Bangkok ) .
Chicago , Hong Kong , and New York City , otherwise known as `` the big three , '' are recognized in architectural circles as having especially compelling skylines .
The problems posed in skyscraper design are considered among the most complex encountered given the balances required between economics , engineering , and construction management .
This presents a paradox to civil engineers : the only way to assure a lack of failure is to test for all modes of failure , in both the laboratory and the real world .
A shear wall , in Skyscraper simplest definition , is a wall where the entire material of the wall is employed in the resistance of both horizontal and vertical loads .
This becomes inefficient and uneconomic for buildings above 40 stories tall as usable floor spaces are reduced for supporting column and due to more usage of steel .
Fazlur Khan and J. Rankine defined the framed tube structure as `` a three dimensional space structure composed of three , four , or possibly more frames , braced frames , or shear walls , joined at or near their edges to form a vertical tube-like structural system capable of resisting lateral forces in any direction by cantilevering from the foundation '' .
One of these was the concept of X-bracing , or the `` trussed tube '' , first employed for the John Hancock Center .
In contrast to earlier steel-frame structures , such as the Empire State Building ( 1931 ) , which required about 206 kilograms of steel per square metre and Chase Manhattan Bank Building ( 1961 ) , which required around 275 kilograms of steel per square metre , the John Hancock Center was far more efficient , requiring only 145 kilograms of steel per square metre .
The invention of the elevator was a precondition for the invention of Skyscraper , given that most people would not ( or could not ) climb more than a few flights of stairs at a time .
Thus the construction of Skyscraper is dictated by economics and results in skyscrapers in a certain part of a large city unless a building code restricts the height of buildings .
Some skyscrapers have been built in areas where the bedrock is near surface , because this makes constructing the foundation cheaper , for example this is the case in Midtown Manhattan and Lower Manhattan , in New York City , United States , but not in-between these two parts of the city .
The environmental impact of Skyscraper and whether instead of Skyscraper multiple smaller , lighter buildings would be more environmentally friendly or sustainable is under debate .
For example the Empire State Building received a gold Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design rating in September 2011 and the Empire State Building is the tallest LEED certified building in the United States , proving that Skyscraper can be environmentally friendly .
A number of architectural records , including those of the world 's tallest building and tallest free-standing structure , moved to the Middle East with the opening of the Burj Khalifa in Dubai , United Arab Emirates .
This reflected the `` international style '' or modernist philosophy shaped by Bauhaus architects early in the century .
The last of these , the Willis Tower and World Trade Center towers in New York , erected in the 1970s , reflect the philosophy .
The Sagas of Icelanders -- many of which are also known as family sagas -- are prose histories mostly describing events that took place in Iceland in the 10th and early 11th centuries , during the so-called Saga Age .
To date , the band has recorded seven studio albums : Tormented ( 1996 ) , Dysfunction ( 1999 ) , Break the Cycle ( 2001 ) , 14 Shades of Grey ( 2003 ) , Chapter V ( 2005 ) , The Illusion of Progress ( 2008 ) , and their self-titled album ( 2011 ) .
The nine-track LP ( with one hidden track , `` Excess Baggage '' ) produced three singles , `` Just Go '' , `` Mudshovel '' , and `` Home '' .
`` Mudshovel '' and `` Home '' both received radio play , cracking the Top 20 of Billboard 's Modern Rock and Mainstream Rock charts .
The singles `` So Far Away '' and `` Price to Play '' came with two unreleased tracks , `` Novocaine '' and `` Let Staind Out '' , which were released for the special edition of the group 's Chapter V , which came out in late 2005 .
`` Falling '' ( the video of which does not feature the band members at all ) was released as the second single , followed by `` Everything Changes '' and `` King of All Excuses '' .
In 2006 , Staind performed an acoustic show in the Hiro Ballroom , New York City on September 6 and the songs played were recorded for their `` Greatest Hits '' album .
A limited edition of the album was also made available to fans , which included three bonus tracks and a year membership in the Staind Fan Club , along with other items ( the first 200 fans who pre-ordered the album through Atlantic Records received a signed copy of the album by the band ) .
A leading member of the revolutionary Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party , and later , the Baghdad-based Ba'ath Party and its regional organisation Ba'ath Party -- Iraq Region -- which espoused ba'athism , a mix of Arab nationalism and Arab socialism -- Saddam played a key role in the 1968 coup ( later referred to as the 17 July Revolution ) that brought the party to power in Iraq .
As vice president under the ailing General Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr , and at a time when many groups were considered capable of overthrowing the government , Saddam created security forces through which Saddam Hussein tightly controlled conflict between the government and the armed forces .
Tulfah , the father of Saddam 's future wife , was a devout Sunni Muslim and a veteran from the 1941 Anglo-Iraqi War between Iraqi nationalists and the United Kingdom , which remained a major colonial power in the region .
Later in Saddam Hussein life relatives from Saddam Hussein native Tikrit became some of Saddam Hussein closest advisors and supporters .
The idea of assassinating Qasim may have been Nasser 's , and there is speculation that some of those who participated in the operation received training in Damascus , which was then part of the UAR .
In the first meeting of the Defense Council and cabinet to elect Saddam Hussein , Al-Bazzaz needed a two-thirds majority to win the presidency .
In the late 1960s and early 1970s , as vice chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council , formally the al-Bakr 's second-in-command , Saddam built a reputation as a progressive , effective politician .
Saddam 's self-aggrandising propaganda , with Saddam Hussein posing as the defender of Arabism against Jewish or Persian intruders , was heavy-handed , but consistent as a drumbeat .
Development went forward at such a fevered pitch that two million people from other Arab countries and even Yugoslavia worked in Iraq to meet the growing demand for labor .
Iraqi society is divided along lines of language , religion and ethnicity ; Saddam 's government rested on the support of the 20 % minority of Sunnis .
In addition to the People 's Army , the Department of General Intelligence ( Mukhabarat ) was the most notorious arm of the state security system , feared for its use of torture and assassination .
This was seen in Saddam Hussein variety of apparel : Saddam Hussein appeared in the costumes of the Bedouin , the traditional clothes of the Iraqi peasant ( which Saddam Hussein essentially wore during Saddam Hussein childhood ) , and even Kurdish clothing , but also appeared in Western suits fitted by Saddam Hussein favorite tailor , projecting the image of an urbane and modern leader .
In the October 15 , 2002 referendum Saddam Hussein officially achieved 100 % of approval votes and 100 % turnout , as the electoral commission reported the next day that every one of the 11,445,638 eligible voters cast a `` Yes '' vote for the president .
Relations between Iraq and Egypt violently ruptured in 1977 , when the two nations broke relations with each other following Iraq 's criticism of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat 's peace initiatives with Israel .
However , the 1978 crackdown on Iraqi Communists and a shift of trade toward the West strained Iraqi relations with the Soviet Union ; Iraq then took on a more Western orientation until the Gulf War in 1991 .
Saddam led Arab opposition to the Camp David Accords between Egypt and Israel ( 1979 ) .
The result was brutal fighting between the government and Kurdish groups and even Iraqi bombing of Kurdish villages in Iran , which caused Iraqi relations with Iran to deteriorate .
After Khomeini gained power , skirmishes between Iraq and revolutionary Iran occurred for ten months over the sovereignty of the disputed Shatt al-Arab waterway , which divides the two countries .
With the support of the Arab states , the United States , and Europe , and heavily financed by the Arab states of the Persian Gulf , Saddam Hussein had become `` the defender of the Arab world '' against a revolutionary Iran .
Both economies , previously healthy and expanding , were left in ruins .
However , this had proven to completely backfire both on Iraq and on the part of the Arab states , for Khomeini was widely perceived as a hero for managing to defend Iran and maintain the war with little foreign support against the heavily backed Iraq and only managed to boost Islamic radicalism not only within the Arab states , but within Iraq itself , creating new tensions between the Sunni Ba'ath Party and the majority Shiite population .
The end of the war with Iran served to deepen latent tensions between Iraq and its wealthy neighbor Kuwait .
Saddam had always argued that Kuwait was historically an integral part of Iraq , and that Kuwait had only come into being through the maneuverings of British imperialism ; this echoed a belief that Iraqi nationalists had voiced for the past 50 years .
Taken together , Iraq and Kuwait sat on top of some 20 percent of the world 's known oil reserves ; as an article of comparison , Saudi Arabia holds 25 percent .
Whatever Glaspie did or did not say in her interview with Saddam , the Iraqis assumed that the United States had invested too much in building relations with Iraq over the 1980s to sacrifice them for Kuwait .
As tensions between Washington and Saddam began to escalate , the Soviet Union , under Mikhail Gorbachev , strengthened its military relationship with the Iraqi leader , providing Saddam Hussein military advisers , arms and aid .
Iraq 's ethnic and religious divisions , together with the brutality of the conflict that this had engendered , laid the groundwork for postwar rebellions .
The Iranians , despite the widespread Shi'ite rebellions , had no interest in provoking another war , while Turkey opposed any prospect of Kurdish independence , and the Saudis and other conservative Arab states feared an Iran-style Shi'ite revolution .
Saddam , having survived the immediate crisis in the wake of defeat , was left firmly in control of Iraq , although the country never recovered either economically or militarily from the Gulf War .
John Esposito , however , claims that `` Arabs and Muslims were pulled in two directions .
Some elements of Sharia law were re-introduced , and the ritual phrase `` Allahu Akbar '' ( `` God is great '' ) , in Saddam 's handwriting , was added to the national flag .
Relations between the United States and Iraq remained tense following the Gulf War .
In July 2003 , Saddam Hussein sons Uday and Qusay and 14-year-old grandson Mustapha were killed in a three-hour gunfight with U.S. forces .
On 30 June 2004 , Saddam Hussein , held in custody by U.S. forces at the U.S. base `` Camp Cropper '' , along with 11 other senior Ba'athist leaders , were handed over legally ( though not physically ) to the interim Iraqi government to stand trial for crimes against humanity and other offences .
Saddam 's half brother , Barzan Ibrahim , and Awad Hamed al-Bandar , head of Iraq 's Revolutionary Court in 1982 , were convicted of similar charges .
In August 2003 , Saddam 's daughters Raghad and Rana received sanctuary in Amman , Jordan , where they are currently staying with their nine children .
Sonja Henie ( April 8 , 1912 -- October 12 , 1969 ) was a Norwegian figure skater and film star .
Wilhelm Henie had been a one-time World Cycling Champion and the Sonja Henie children were encouraged to take up a variety of sports at a young age .
The results of 1927 World Championships , where Sonja Henie won in 3 -- 2 decision ( or 7 vs. 8 ordinal points ) over the defending Olympic and World Champion Herma Szabo of Austria , was controversial , as all three of five judges that gave Sonja Henie first-place ordinals were Norwegian ( 1 + 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 = 7 points ) while Szabo received first-place ordinals from an Austrian and a German Judge ( 1 + 1 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8 points ) .
At the time , figure skating and ice shows were not yet an established form of entertainment in the United States .
The Science & Environmental Policy Project ( SEPP ) is a research and advocacy group financed by private contributions based in Arlington , Virginia in the United States .
Both greenhouse theory and computer models predict that global warming should be more rapid in the polar regions than anywhere else , '' he says , `` but in July the Antarctic experienced the coldest weather on record '' .
Unnamed climate scientists from NASA , Stanford University and Princeton who were contacted by ABC News dismissed the same report as `` fabricated nonsense '' .
Around 613 an Irish monk named Gallus , a disciple and companion of Saint Columbanus , established a hermitage on the site that would become the Abbey .
Abbey of Saint Gall was home to several famous scholars , including Notker of Liège , Notker the Stammerer , Notker Labeo and Hartker ( who developed the antiphonal liturgical books for the Abbey ) .
The people of Appenzell and the local clerics submitted to this force without noteworthy resistance , while the city of St. Gallen braced for a fight to the finish .
However , the Abbot 's reliance on the Swiss to support him reduced his position almost to that of a `` subject district '' The town adopted the Reformation in 1524 , while the Abbey remained Catholic , which damaged relations between the town and Abbey .
The Abitur from Gymnasium is better for Humanistic pointed University and SOŠ Abitur is better for Technical pointed university .
This means for example no tuition fees for full-time students and free meals are served to pupils .
The main types of secondary school are : community schools , comprehensive schools , colleges ( though this term is more usually applied to third-level institutions like universities ) , vocational schools , voluntary secondary schools and meánscoileanna ( secondary schools that teach all subjects through Irish ) .
There is an optional year in many secondary schools in Ireland known as Transition Year , which some students choose to take after completing the Junior Certificate , and before starting the Leaving Certificate .
There is also a prominent movement known as Gaelscoileanna where every subject is taught through the Irish Language , and these are growing fast in number .
Upper secondary schools ( Sln. gimnazije ) are the most elite and the most difficult high-school programmes , intended for the best students that wish to pursue university education in the future .
After Standard Grades/Intermediates , some students leave to gain employment or attend further education colleges , however nowadays most students study for Highers , of which five are usually studied .
School is compulsory in Australia between the ages of five/six-fifteen/sixteen or seventeen , depending on the state , with , in recent years , over three-quarters of people staying on until their thirteenth year in school .
Until the year 1971 , ensino médio had three different names : curso científico , curso normal and curso clássico ( which means classic ) .
Forms Four and Five students prepare for the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination ( HKCEE ) , which takes place after Form Five .
Advanced Placement ( or AP ) is an alternative option but much less common than GCE or IGCSE .
After nine years of Educación Escolar Básica ( Primary School ) , the student can choose to go to either a Bachillerato Técnico ( Vocational School ) or a Bachillerato Científico ( High School ) , both are part of the Educación Media ' system .
This two forms of secondary education last three years , and are usually located in the same campus called Colegio '' .
The Bachillerato Técnico combine general education with some specific subjects , referred to as pre-vocational education and career orientation .
The difference between Special and Express is that the former takes higher Mother Tongue , which can be used as a first language in exams instead of the subject `` mother tongue '' that Express students take .
The Integrated Programme ( IP ) is a 6 year programme offered to the top 10 percent of the cohort to pass through the O level exams , and go straight to the affiliated JC .
Anyone Can Whistle depresses him terribly and makes Anyone Can Whistle terribly difficult for him to work ... It is damn hard to concentrate ... when all the atmosphere is filled with gloom and forebodings about will the show get the money to go on ?
Laurents , ignoring criticism about the show 's message being trite and Anyone Can Whistle absurdist style difficult to comprehend , poured his energies into restaging rather than dealing with the crux of the problem .
At the rock , a local mother , Mrs. Schroeder , tries to tell her child , Baby Joan , to come down from the rock , when Baby Joan licks Anyone Can Whistle - and a spring of water begins flowing from Anyone Can Whistle .
That way Fay can be free of them and Anyone Can Whistle can stop pretending .
( `` See What Anyone Can Whistle Gets You '' ) As Cora and the police force begin rounding up Cookies , Fay tries to get the key away from the guards in an extended ballet sequence .
Serotonin syndrome is a potentially life-threatening drug reaction that may occur following therapeutic drug use , inadvertent interactions between drugs , overdose of particular drugs , or the recreational use of certain drugs .
For this reason , some experts strongly prefer the terms serotonin toxicity or serotonin toxidrome because these more accurately reflect the fact that Serotonin syndrome is a form of poisoning .
Additionally , noradrenergic CNS hyperactivity may play a role as CNS norepinephrine concentrations are increased in Serotonin syndrome and levels appear to correlate with the clinical outcome .
Other neurotransmitters may also play a role ; NMDA receptor antagonists and GABA have been suggested as affecting the development of the syndrome .
Features that are classically present in NMS , that are useful for differentiating the two , are bradykinesia and extrapyramidal `` lead pipe '' rigidity , whereas Serotonin syndrome causes hyperkinesia and clonus .
Sustainable development means resolving the conflict between the various competing goals , and involves the simultaneous pursuit of economic prosperity , environmental quality and social equity famously known as three dimensions ( triple bottom line ) with the resultant vector being technology , hence Sustainable development is a continually evolving process ; the ` journey ' ( the process of achieving sustainability ) is of course vitally important , but only as a means of getting to the destination ( the desired future state ) .
This conception of sustainable development focuses equally on four conditions : improving our quality of life and well-being ; on meeting the needs of both present and future generations ( intra - and intergenerational equity ) ; on justice and equity in terms of recognition ( Schlosberg , 1999 ) , process , procedure and outcome and on the need for us to live within ecosystem limits ( also called one planet living ) ( Agyeman , 2005:92 ) .
Working with a different emphasis , some researchers and institutions have pointed out that a fourth dimension should be added to the dimensions of sustainable development , since the triple-bottom-line dimensions of economic , environmental and social do not seem to be enough to reflect the complexity of contemporary society .
In this context , the Agenda 21 for culture and the United Cities and Local Governments ( UCLG ) Executive Bureau lead the preparation of the policy statement `` Culture : Fourth Pillar of Sustainable development '' , passed on 17 November 2010 , in the framework of the World Summit of Local and Regional Leaders -- 3rd World Congress of UCLG , held in Mexico City .
Asheim ,1999 and Pezzey , 1989 and 1997 ) have advocated a form of the weak criterion for sustainable development -- the requirement than the wealth of a society , including human capital , knowledge capital and natural capital ( as well as produced capital ) not decline over time .
If the degradation of natural and social capital has such important consequence the question arises why action is not taken more systematically to alleviate Sustainable development .
Information asymmetry is a third reason -- often the link between cause and effect is obscured , making Sustainable development difficult for actors to make informed choices .
In this process Sustainable development instrumentalize both natural and social capital aiming to benefit from win-win situations .
The process of growing two or more crops in the same piece of land , during the same season is called Multiple Cropping .
The process of growing two or more dissimilar or unrelated crops in the same piece of land in different seasons is known as Crop Rotation .
In 2007 a report for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency stated : `` While much discussion and effort has gone into sustainability indicators , none of the resulting systems clearly tells us whether our society is sustainable .
Nevertheless a majority of authors assume that a set of well defined and harmonised indicators is the only way to make sustainability tangible .
In March 1996 , Scientific American launched Scientific American own website that includes articles from current and past issues , online-only features , daily news , weird science , special reports , trivia , `` Scidoku '' and more .
The publisher was criticized in 2009 when Scientific American notified collegiate libraries that subscribe to the journal that yearly subscription prices would increase by nearly 500 % for print and 50 % for online access to $ 1500 yearly .
Siouxsie and the Banshees disbanded in 1996 , with Siouxsie and drummer Budgie continuing to record music as The Creatures , a second band they had formed in the early 1980s .
When Siouxsie and the Banshees learned that one of the bands scheduled to play the 100 Club Punk Festival , organized by Sex Pistols manager Malcolm McLaren , pulled out from the bill at the last minute , Siouxsie suggested that she and Severin play , even though they had no band name or additional members .
With two borrowed musicians at their side , Marco Pirroni on guitars and John Simon Ritchie ( already commonly known as Sid Vicious ) on drums , their set consisted of a 20-minute improvisation based on `` The Lord 's Prayer '' .
After playing several gigs in early 1977 , Siouxsie and the Banshees realized that Fenton did not fit in because he was `` a real rock guitarist '' .
Nick Kent of NME said of the record : `` Siouxsie and the Banshees sounds like some unique hybrid of the Velvet Underground mated with much of the ingenuity of Tago Mago-era Can , if any parallel can be drawn '' .
The record , featuring strings on several numbers , was an intentional contrast to their previous work , with Severin later describing Siouxsie and the Banshees as a `` sexy album '' .
The NME praised the project at Siouxsie and the Banshees release : `` The power of a classical orchestra is the perfect foil for the band 's grindingly insistent sounds '' .
Sounds magazine noted : `` Tinderbox is a refreshing slant on the Banshees ' disturbing perspective and restores their vivid shades to pop 's pale palette '' .
Q magazine praised the album in Siouxsie and the Banshees five-star review : `` Peepshow takes place in some distorted fairground of the mind where weird and wonderful shapes loom '' .
Siouxsie and the Banshees collaborated with a yet-unknown Asian Tabla player Talvin Singh , who also sang during the bridge .
On their return home , Siouxsie and the Banshees hired former Velvet Underground member John Cale to produce the rest of the record .
A few weeks after Siouxsie and the Banshees release , Polydor dropped the band from Siouxsie and the Banshees roster and Klein was replaced on the band 's last tour in 1995 by ex-Psychedelic Furs guitarist Knox Chandler .
The year after , Downside Up , a box-set that collected all of the band 's B-sides and The Thorn EP , was released .
The At the BBC box set , containing a DVD with all of the band 's UK live television performances and three CDs with in-concert recordings , was also released in June of the same year .
The Cure leader Robert Smith declared in 2003 : `` Siouxsie and the Banshees and Wire were the two bands I really admired .
This is just a pop song that they put out in the middle of their career that nobody knows about , but to me Siouxsie and the Banshees sounded like the most current but most futuristic bit of guitar-pop music I 've heard '' .
SNOBOL SNOBOL is a series of computer programming languages developed between 1962 and 1967 at AT&T Bell Laboratories by David J. Farber , Ralph E. Griswold and Ivan P. Polonsky , culminating in SNOBOL4 .
It is possible to write , for example , a SNOBOL4 pattern which matches `` a complete name and international postal mailing address '' , which is well beyond anything that is practical to even attempt using regular expressions .
Historically , one of the first topics in physics where statistical methods were applied was the field of mechanics , which is concerned with the motion of particles or objects when subjected to a force .
One of the most important equations in Statistical mechanics ( analogous to in mechanics , or the Schroedinger equation in quantum mechanics ) is the definition of the partition function , which is essentially a weighted sum of all possible states available to a system .
Understanding and debugging a function with side effects requires knowledge about the context and Side effect (computer science) possible histories .
The functional language Haskell restricts side effects with a static type system ; Side effect (computer science) uses the concept of monads to do stateful and IO computations .
Such a processor may require additional control circuitry to detect hidden side effects and stall the pipeline if the next instruction depends on the results of those effects .
Referential transparency means that an expression ( such as a function call ) can be replaced with Side effect (computer science) value ; this requires that the expression has no side effects and is pure ( always returns the same results on the same input ) .
Alcopop ( or Cooler in Canadian English ) is a colloquial term describing certain flavored alcoholic beverages , including : The term ` alcopop ' ( a portmanteau of the words alcohol and pop ) is used by advocates of tighter restrictions on alcoholic beverage sales , who argue that the beverages are especially appealing to underage drinkers .
Flavored malt beverages exhibit little or no traditional beer or malt beverage character .
This leaves a base product to which brewers add various flavors , which typically contain distilled spirits , to achieve the desired taste profile and alcohol level .
( January 3 , 2005 ) In some Continental European countries , such as Austria and Germany , bottled beer cocktails and shandies are available , which are being marketed the same way like Alcopop .
However , these beverages are based on traditional hopped beers and therefore not considered to be Alcopop .
This follows from the Chinese remainder theorem and the fact that a ring of the form Z / kZ is a field if and only if k is a prime .
1 ) According to Marvel canon , Sentinel (comics) are programmed to locate mutants and capture or kill them .
Sentinel (comics) are designed to hunt mutants who often represent the protagonists of Marvel stories ; therefore , Sentinel (comics) are usually employed as supervillains or as the tools of other villains .
After more than 150 years of being active , Rover has become self-aware and , possibly , capable of emotion .
Sentinel (comics) are adapted by Sebastian Shaw , now the director of S.H.I.E.L.D. , to serve a reverse purpose , and now aid in the hunting of sapien rebels .
An away team composed of Captain Picard , Deanna Troi , Nightcrawler and Colossus encounter an approximation of the `` Days of Future Past '' timeline , in which Sentinel (comics) have merged with the Borg .
In Ultimate X-Men , Sentinel (comics) , created by the Ultimate Marvel version of Bolivar Trask , were already in action at the beginning of the first story arc , hunting down and killing mutants on the streets , in a program apparently openly and publicly acknowledged by the U.S. government .
Ka-Zar had many team-ups with the X-Men , who first revealed Savage Land existence , Spider-Man , and many other superheroes who had visited Savage Land .
At one point , Savage Land was decimated by an evil alien named Terminus ( or one of his pawns ) when he destroyed the machines that maintained the tropical climate .
Ka-Zar , Shanna , and Zabu wandered until the High Evolutionary ( with help from the X-Men , M'rin and Garokk ) restored the region and Savage Land creature allowing them to return to the Savage Land with their newborn son .
The New Avengers and the Mighty Avengers head toward Savage Land where a downed Skrull ship was sighted .
Luke Cage opens the downed Skrull ship and a large group of Marvel superheroes with older appearances and costumes come out , speaking as if Savage Land believe themselves to be authentic .
Ka-Zar joined the Avengers teams into fighting the Skrulls in New York while Shanna and the other Savage Land natives hunted down the remaining Skrulls hiding out in Savage Land .
Savage Land is later revealed that Miek and the other Imperials and Natives from Sakaar that came with Hulk back in World War Hulk had settled in the Savage Land constructing a village called New Imperia .
The Ark used the last of Savage Land capabilities to revive the five Autobot warriors by scanning the Savage Land 's dominant lifeform : dinosaurs , and rebuild them into the Dinobots .
Stephen Schneider ( February 11 , 1945 -- July 19 , 2010 ) was Professor of Environmental Biology and Global Change at Stanford University , a Co-Director at the Center for Environment Science and Policy of the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies and a Senior Fellow in the Stanford Woods Institute for Stephen Schneider .
A main source of detection comes when other research teams in fact fail or get different results .
Three percent of the 3,475 research institutions that report to the US Department of Health and Human Services ' Office of Research Integrity , indicate some form of scientific misconduct .
Simultaneous submission of scientific findings to more than one journal or duplicate publication of findings is usually regarded as misconduct , under what is known as the Ingelfinger rule , named after the editor of the New England Journal of Medicine 1967-1977 , Franz Ingelfinger .
Guest authorship ( where there is stated authorship in the absence of involvement , also known as gift authorship ) and ghost authorship ( where the real author is not listed as an author ) are commonly regarded as forms of Scientific misconduct .
In the Boldt case , the Editors-in-Chief of 18 specialist journals ( generally anaesthesia and intensive care ) made a joint statement regarding 88 published clinical trials conducted without Ethics Committee approval .
This is distinguishable from other concepts such as bad science , junk science or pseudoscience where the criticism centres on the methodology or underlying assumptions .
The Piltdown Man fraud is a case in point : The significance of the bona-fide fossils ' being found was muted for decades because they disagreed with Piltdown Man and the pre-conceived notions that those faked fossils supported .
In the case of Dr Alfred Steinschneider , two decades and tens of millions of research dollars were lost trying to find the elusive link between infant sleep apnea , that Steinschneider said he had observed and recorded in his laboratory and claimed was a precursor of sudden infant death syndrome ( SIDS ) .
This means that a range of actors in any case may have a motivation to suppress any evidence or suggestion of misconduct .
If a university fails to investigate suspected fraud or provides a fake investigation to save their reputation the whistleblower has no right of appeal .
Set (game) is a real-time card game designed by Marsha Falco in 1974 and published by Set (game) Enterprises in 1991 .
Given any two cards from the deck , there will be one and only one other card that forms a Set (game) with them .
Set (game) is a real-time card game designed by Marsha Falco in 1974 and published by Set Enterprises in 1991 .
The gallantry displayed must have taken place while in action against an enemy of the United States , while engaged in military operations involving conflict with an opposing foreign force , or while serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict against an opposing armed force in which the United States is not a belligerent party .
However , during the Vietnam War , the last conflict to produce U.S. fighter aces , the one USAF pilot , the two USAF navigators/weapon systems officers ( who were later retrained as USAF pilots ) , the one USN Naval Aviator and the one USN Naval Flight Officer/radar intercept officer to achieve this distinction were eventually awarded the Air Force Cross and Navy Cross , respectively , in addition to Silver Stars previously awarded for earlier aerial kills .
In 1944 , four Army nurses serving in Italy -- First Lieutenant Mary Roberts , Second Lieutenant Elaine Roe , Second Lieutenant Rita Virginia Rourke , and Second Lieutenant Ellen Ainsworth ( posthumous ) -- became the first women recipients of Silver Star , all cited for their bravery in successfully evacuating the 33rd Field Hospital at Anzio , Italy on February 10 .
In the early 1990s , a separate effort known as the Common API Specification or Single UNIX Specification was initiated by several major vendors , who formed the COSE alliance in the wake of the Unix wars .
Beginning in 1998 , a joint working group known as the Austin Group began to develop the combined standard that would be known as the Single UNIX Specification Version 3 and as POSIX :2001 ( formally : IEEE Std 1003.1-2001 ) .
There are two official marks for conforming systems Older UNIX standards ( superseded ) AIX 5L V5 .2 with some updates , AIX 5L V5 .3 and AIX 6.1 , are registered as Single UNIX Specification compliant .
While Scientific revolution dates are disputed , the publication in 1543 of Nicolaus Copernicus 's De revolutionibus orbium coelestium ( On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres ) and Andreas Vesalius 's De humani corporis fabrica ( On the Fabric of the Human body ) is often cited as marking the beginning of the scientific revolution .
Although historians of science continue to debate the exact meaning of the term , and even Scientific revolution validity , the scientific revolution still remains a useful concept to interpret the many changes in science Scientific revolution .
Chemistry , and Scientific revolution antecedent alchemy , became an increasingly important aspect of scientific thought in the course of the 16th and 17th centuries .
During Scientific revolution , changing perceptions about the role of the scientist in respect to nature , the value of evidence , experimental or observed , led towards a scientific methodology in which empiricism played a large , but not absolute , role .
In practice , of course , many scientists ( and philosophers ) believed that a healthy mix of both was needed -- the willingness to question assumptions , yet also to interpret observations assumed to have some degree of validity .
Many of the hallmarks of modern science , especially in respect to the institution and profession of science , did not become standard until the mid-19th century .
Optics , for instance , was revolutionized by people like Robert Hooke , Christiaan Huygens , René Descartes and , once again , Isaac Newton , who developed mathematical theories of light as either waves ( Huygens ) or particles ( Newton ) .
However Arun Bala clearly states : `` The makers of the revolution -- Copernicus , Kepler , Galileo , Descartes , Newton , and many others -- had to selectively appropriate relevant ideas , transform them , and create new auxiliary concepts in order to complete their task ... In the ultimate analysis , even if Scientific revolution was rooted upon a multicultural base it is the accomplishment of Europeans in Europe '' .
Scientific revolution cites statements from Newton , Copernicus and others in favour of the Pythagorean worldview as evidence .
Salian dynasty Salian dynasty , also known as Salian dynasty after the family 's origin and role as dukes of Franconia .
After the death of the last Saxon of the Ottonian Dynasty in 1024 , first the elected German King and then three years later the elected position of Holy Roman Emperor both passed to the first monarch of Salian dynasty in the person of Conrad II , the only son of Count Henry of Speyer and Adelheid of Alsace ( both territories in the Franconia of the day ) .
The alliance broke down in 1075 during what came to be known as the Investiture Controversy ( or Investiture Dispute ) , a struggle in which the reformist Pope , Gregory VII , demanded that Emperor Henry IV renounce his rights over the Church in Germany .
Thus the Investiture Contest strengthened local power in the Holy Roman Empire - in contrast to the trend in France and England , where centralized royal power grew .
( Agnes , Henry IV 's daughter and Henry V 's sister , was the heiress of Salian dynasty 's lands : her first marriage produced the royal and imperial Hohenstaufen dynasty and her second marriage the ducal Babenberg potentates of Duchy of Austria which was elevated much due to such connections Privilegium Minus .
Shmuel Yosef Agnon works deal with the conflict between the traditional Jewish life and language and the modern world .
The main street in Jerusalem 's Givat Oranim neighborhood is called Sderot Shai Agnon , and a synagogue in Talpiot , a few blocks from Shmuel Yosef Agnon home , is named for Shmuel Yosef Agnon .
In 1966 , after being the exclusive artist on The Amazing Spider-Man and the `` Doctor Strange '' feature in Strange Tales , Steve Ditko left Marvel for reasons never specified .
Inspired by Steve Ditko father 's love of newspaper comic strips , particularly Hal Foster 's Prince Valiant , Ditko found Steve Ditko interest in comics accelerated by the introduction of superhero Batman in 1940 , and by Will Eisner 's The Spirit , which appeared in a tabloid-sized comic-book insert in Sunday newspapers .
Following Steve Ditko discharge , Ditko learned that Steve Ditko idol , Batman artist Jerry Robinson , was teaching at the Cartoonists and Illustrators School ( later the School of Visual Arts ) in New York City .
After Steve Ditko recovered and moved back to New York City in late 1955 , Ditko began drawing for Atlas Comics , the 1950s precursor of Marvel Comics , beginning with the four-page `` There 'll Be Some Changes Made '' in Journey into Mystery No. 33 ( April 1956 ) ; this debut tale would be reprinted in Marvel 's Curse of the Weird No. 4 ( March 1994 ) .
Lee in 2009 described these `` short , five-page filler strips that Steve and Steve Ditko did together '' , originally `` placed in any of our comics that had a few extra pages to fill '' , as `` odd fantasy tales that Steve Ditko 'd dream up with O. Henry-type endings '' .
Kirby told Lee about Steve Ditko own 1950s character conception , variously called the Silver Spider and Spiderman , in which an orphaned boy finds a magic ring that gives Steve Ditko superpowers .
For example : A clinging power so Steve Ditko would n't have hard shoes or boots , a hidden wrist-shooter versus a web gun and holster , etc. ... Steve Ditko was n't sure Stan would like the idea of covering the character 's face but Steve Ditko did it because it hid an obviously boyish face .
It would also add mystery to the character ... '' Much earlier , in a rare contemporaneous account , Ditko described Steve Ditko and Lee 's contributions in a mail interview with Gary Martin published in Comic Fan No. 2 ( Summer 1965 ) : `` Stan Lee thought the name up .
What is ` Best Liked ' by most readers is what they are most familiar in seeing and any policy based on readers likes has to end up with a lot of look-a-like strips .
This included a poster that was inked by John Romita Sr. Steve Ditko 's Strange Avenging Tales was announced as a quarterly series from Fantagraphics Books , although it only ran one issue ( Feb. 1997 ) due to publicly unspecified disagreements between Steve Ditko and the publisher .
And boy , could Ditko hack : seeing samples of Steve Ditko Transformers coloring book and Steve Ditko Big Boy comic is like hearing Orson Welles sell frozen peas '' .
In 2010 they published a new edition of the 1973 Mr. A comic and a selection of Steve Ditko covers in The Cover Series .
It 's not what Steve Ditko 'm like that counts ; it 's what Steve Ditko did and how well it was done ... Steve Ditko produce a product , a comic art story .
Sienna , in and of Sienna , is sometimes referred to as `` raw sienna '' , in order to differentiate Sienna from `` burnt sienna '' , which is a more common pigment than the raw form .
Much of today 's sienna production is still carried out in the Italian islands of Sardinia and Sicily , while other major deposits are found in the Appalachian Mountains , where Sienna often goes hand-in-hand with the region 's iron deposits .
This has justified the devaluation of black femininity and rape of black women which continues to this day .
The work which black women have been forced to perform , either in slavery or in a discriminatory work place , that would be non-gender conforming for white women has been used against black women as a proof of their emasculating behaviour .
Meanwhile , she says , the `` feminist movement '' , a largely white middle and upper class affair , did not articulate the needs of poor and non-white women , thus reinforcing sexism , racism , and classism .
She suggests this explains the low numbers of black women who participated in the feminist movement in the 1970s , pointing to Louis Harris ' Virginia Slims poll done in 1972 for Philip Morris that she says showed 62 percent of black women supported `` efforts to change women 's status '' and 67 percent `` sympathized with the women 's rights movement '' , compared with 45 and 35 percent of white women ( also Steinem , 1972 ) .
Super Bowl XXXVI was an American football game between the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion St. Louis Rams and the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion New England Patriots to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2001 season .
Brady , who completed 16 of 27 passes for 145 yards and a touchdown , was named Super Bowl MVP .
The proposed installation method was comparable to what had been used at the Silverdome during the 1994 World Cup , and at Giants Stadium from 2000 -- 2002 .
Singers Mary J. Blige and Marc Anthony , along with the Boston Pops Orchestra , performed `` America the Beautiful '' .
George H. W. Bush became the first president , past or present , to participate in a Super Bowl coin toss in person ( Ronald Reagan participated in the Super Bowl XIX coin toss via satellite from the White House in 1985 ) .
Later in the third quarter , Otis Smith intercepted a pass intended for Rams wide receiver Torry Holt after Holt slipped while coming off the line of scrimmage , and returned the ball 30 yards to the Rams 33-yard line .
Super Bowl XXXVI is an American football game between the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion St. Louis Rams and the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion New England Patriots to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2001 season .
AMOS (programming language) was published by Europress Software and originally written by François Lionet with Constantin Sotiropoulos .
AMOS (programming language) was mostly used to make multimedia software , video games ( platformers and graphical adventures ) and educational software .
The cover and the label include the subtitle `` Exciting new sounds in the folk tradition '' .
ActivistCash , a website hosted by Washington lobbyist Richard Berman , has castigated them as `` self-anointed watchdogs , '' `` scare-mongers , '' `` reckless '' and `` left-leaning '' .
The Miller test ( also called the Three Prong Obscenity Test ) , is the United States Supreme Court 's test for determining whether speech or expression can be labeled obscene , in which case Miller test is not protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution and can be prohibited .
Many works decried as pornographic have been successfully argued to have some artistic or literary value , most publicly in the context of the National Endowment for the Arts in the 1990s .
A set-top box ( STB ) or set-top unit ( STU ) is an information appliance device that generally contains a tuner and connects to a television set and an external source of signal , turning the source signal into content in a form that can then be displayed on the television screen or other display device .
Before the All-Channel Receiver Act of 1962 required US television receivers to be able to tune the entire VHF and UHF range ( which in North America was NTSC-M channels 2 through 83 on 54 to 890 MHz ) , a set-top box known as a UHF converter would be installed at the receiver to shift a portion of the UHF-TV spectrum onto low-VHF channels for viewing .
As some 1960s-era 12-channel TV sets remained in use for many years , and Canada and Mexico were slower than the US to require UHF tuners to be factory-installed in new TVs , a market for these converters continued to exist for much of the 1970s .
Block conversion of the entire affected frequency band onto UHF , while less common , was used by some models to provide full VCR compatibility and the ability to drive multiple TV sets , albeit with a somewhat nonstandard channel numbering scheme .
Some have also been produced to mute the audio ( or replace Set-top box with noise ) when profanity is detected in the captioning , where the offensive word is also blocked .
Set-top box are designed for more robust field handling and rack mounting environments , and are also technically superior ; IRDs have the distinct feature of outputting uncompressed SDI signals , unlike consumer STBs , which do n't , mostly because of copyright reasons .
By integrating varying delivery streams , hybrids enable pay-TV operators more flexible application deployment , which decreases the cost of launching new services , increases speed to market , and limits disruption for consumers .
This feature allows the user to choose favorite channels , making them easier and quicker to access ; this is handy with the wide range of digital channels on offer .
The timer allows the user to program and enable the box to switch between channels at certain times : this is handy to record from more than one channel while the user is out .
This means the user has only to program the set-top box and Set-top box will switch to the right channel at the right time and `` wake up '' the VCR or DVR to record , so there is no need for a timer .
The distinction between external tuner or demodulator boxes ( traditionally considered to be Set-top box ) and storage devices ( such as VCR , DVD , or disc-based PVR units ) is also blurred by the increasing deployment of satellite and cable tuner boxes with hard discs , network or USB interfaces built-in .
A box connected to a television ( or VCR ) SCART connector is fed with the baseband television signal from Set-top box tuner , and can have the television display the returned processed signal instead .
In German literature in particular is a wealth of Scatology texts and references , which includes such books as Collofino 's Non Olet .
This concept is important in mathematical analysis as the foundation for Lebesgue integration , and in probability theory , where Sigma-algebra is interpreted as the collection of events which can be assigned probabilities .
A more useful example is the set of subsets of the real line formed by starting with all open intervals and adding in all countable unions , countable intersections , and relative complements and continuing this process until the relevant closure properties are achieved ( a construction known as the Borel σ-algebra see Borel set ) .
The pair ( X , Σ ) is an algebra of sets and also a field of sets , called Sigma-algebra .
In fact , this is precisely the difference between Sigma-algebra and a σ-ring : a σ-algebra Σ is just a σ-ring that contains the universal set X .
This σ-algebra is denoted σ ( F ) and called the σ-algebra generated by F '' ' .
If f is a function from a set X to a set Y and B is a & sigma ; - algebra of subsets of Y , then the & sigma ; - algebra generated by the function f , denoted by & sigma ; ( f ) , is Sigma-algebra of all inverse images f-1 ( S ) of the sets S in B '' .
One common situation , and understood by default if B is not specified explicitly , is when Y is a metric or topological space and B are the Borel sets on Y .
An important example is the Borel algebra over any topological space : the σ-algebra generated by the open sets ( or , equivalently , by the closed sets ) .
The Polish Mine Detector designed in Scotland in 1941 by the Polish engineer and signals officer , Lt. Józef Kosacki was to be used for the first time in action .
This allowed Eighth Army to build up supplies in the forward area unnoticed by the Axis , by replacing the rubbish with ammunition , petrol or rations at night .
In early September , arrangements were made for him to return to Germany on sick leave and for Lieutenent-General ( General der Panzertruppe ) Georg Stumme to transfer from the Russian front to take his place .
Because the Allied deception measures had confused the Axis as to Second Battle of El Alamein likely point of attack , Rommel departed from his usual practice of holding his armoured strength in a single concentrated reserve and split Second Battle of El Alamein into a northern group ( 15th Panzer and Littorio Divisions ) and a southern group ( 21st Panzer and Ariete Divisions ) , each organised into battle groups in order to be able to make a quick armoured intervention wherever the blow fell and so prevent any narrow breakthroughs from being enlarged .
The shelling plan continued for five and a half hours , by the end of which each gun had fired about 600 rounds .
The main attack aimed to engage and pin down the 21st Panzer Division and the Ariete Armoured Division around Jebel Kalakh , while the Free French on the far left were to secure Qaret el Himeimat and secure the el Taqa plateau .
The Indian 4th Infantry Division , on the far left of the XXX Corps front at Ruweisat Ridge , made a mock attack and two small raids intended to deflect attention to the centre of the front .
This was the new northern thrust Montgomery had devised earlier in the day , and was to be the scene of heated battle for some days .
He found that the Italian Trento Division had lost 50 % of Second Battle of El Alamein infantry and most of Second Battle of El Alamein artillery , 164th Light Division had lost two battalions and although the 15th Panzer and Littorio Divisions had held off the Allied armour , this had proved costly .
During the day , he also started to draw his reserves to what was becoming the focal point of the battle : 21st Panzer and part of the Ariete moved north during the night to reinforce the 15th Panzer and Littorio Divisions and 90th Light Division at El Daba were ordered forward while the Trieste Division were ordered from Fuka to replace them .
Some hours of confused fighting ensued involving tanks from the Littorio and troops and anti-tank guns from 15th Panzer which managed to keep the British armour at bay in spite of the support of the Rifle Brigade battlegroup 's anti-tank guns .
90th Light Division was to make a fresh attempt to capture Point 29 and 21st Panzer were targeted at Snipe ( the Ariete detachment had returned south ) .
20th Australian Infantry Brigade with 40th R.T.R. in support would push northwest from Point 29 to form a base for 26th Australian Infantry Brigade with 46th R.T.R. in support to strike northeast to an enemy-held location south of the railway known as `` Thompson 's Post '' and then over the railway to the coast road where they would advance south east to close on the rear of the Axis troops in the coastal salient .
The Australians suffered 200 casualties in that attack and overall suffered 27 killed and 290 wounded .
By the end of the day , the British had 800 tanks still in operation , while the Axis had 148 German and 187 Italian tanks .
One of the Australians killed on 31st was Sergeant William Kibby who , for his heroic actions from the 23rd until his death , and for making a lone attack on a machine-gun , was awarded the Victoria Cross .
On the right of the main attack 28th ( Maori ) battalion captured positions to protect the right flank of the newly formed salient and 133rd Lorried Infantry did the same on the left .
The reply came from Freyberg that Montgomery The German and Italian anti-tank guns ( mostly Pak38 and Italian 47 mm guns , along with 24 of the formidable 88 mm flak guns ) opened fire upon the charging tanks silhouetted by the rising sun .
German tanks , which had penetrated between the Warwickshire Yeomanry and Royal Wiltshire Yeomanry also caused many casualties .
On the morning of 3 November 7 Armoured Division would pass through and swing north heading for the railway at Ghazal station .
Harry Zinder of Time magazine noted that the Italians fought better than had been expected , and commented that for the Italians : By late morning on 4 November , Rommel realised his situation was dire : `` The picture in the early afternoon of the 4th was as follows : powerful enemy armoured forces ... had burst a 12-mile hole in our front , through which strong bodies of tanks were moving to the west .
10th Armoured Division , with the benefit of working on the coastal road and with ample fuel , pushed Second Battle of El Alamein tanks on to Mersa Matruh while Second Battle of El Alamein infantry mopped up on the road west of Galal .
By the evening of 10 November the New Zealand Division , heading for Sollum , had 4th Light Armoured Brigade at the foot of the Halfya Pass while 7th Armoured Division was conducting another detour to the south aiming to swing round and take Fort Capuzzo and Sidi Azeiz .
But with the arrival of Sherman tanks , 6-pounder anti-tank guns and Spitfires in the Western Desert , the Allies at last had the ability to match the opposition .
This overwhelming air superiority had a huge effect on the battle and not only because of Second Battle of El Alamein physical impact .
On the first occasion , Wavell 's offensive in 1940 had failed when with his lines of supply overstretched , political decisions intervened to withdraw troops to fight in Greece and East Africa while his opponents were reinforced with the Afrika Korps .
This time , however , it was Rommel 's troops which found themselves fought out and with few replacements while prior to the battle Montgomery had focused his planners intensely on the question of how to create supply lines to provide the Eighth Army with the 2400 t of supply it needed each day .
This was so successful that the railway line between El Alamein and Fort Capuzzo , despite having been blown up in over 200 separate places , was quickly put into commission and in the month after Eighth Army reached Capuzzo carried 133000 ST of supplies .
Rommel , concerned that his army would be completely enveloped and destroyed if he once again halted to face the Eighth Army , had , with the agreement of Field Marshal Bastico , sent a request to the Italian Comando Supremo in Rome to withdraw all the way to Tunisia where the terrain would better suit a defensive action and where he could link with the Axis army forming there in response to the Operation Torch landings .
After three years the African theatre was cleared of Axis forces and the Allies could look northward to the Mediterranean .
Sextant primary use is to determine the angle between a celestial object and the horizon which is known as the object 's altitude .
Making this measurement is known as sighting the object , shooting the object , or taking a sight and Sextant is an essential part of celestial navigation .
Sextant can also be used to measure the lunar distance between the moon and another celestial object ( e.g. , star , planet ) in order to determine Greenwich time which is important because it can then be used to determine the longitude .
In large part , this is because precision flat mirrors have grown less expensive to manufacture and to silver .
To sight ( or measure ) the angle between the sun , a star , or a planet , and the horizon the ` star telescope ' should be fitted to Sextant .
Under STV , an elector has a single vote that is initially allocated to his or her most preferred candidate , and then , as the count proceeds and candidates are either elected or eliminated , is transferred to other candidates according to the voter 's stated preferences , in proportion to any surplus or discarded votes .
The simplest methods of transferring surpluses under STV involve an element of randomness ; partially random systems are used in the Republic of Ireland ( except Senate elections ) and Malta , among other places .
For this reason the Gregory method ( also known as Newland-Britain or Senatorial rules ) was invented , which eliminates randomness by allowing for the transfer of fractions of votes .
In a 9 seat district the Quota or Threshold is 10 % ( plus one vote ) where that is raised to 25 % ( plus one vote ) in a three seater .
Hence , the use of STV may reduce the role of political parties in the electoral process and corresponding partisanship in the resulting government .
A third alternative to fulfil a vacancy is to hold a single-winner by-election ( effectively instant-runoff ) ; this allows each party to choose a new candidate and all voters to participate .
In jurisdictions such as the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland , voters may rank as many or as few candidates as they wish .
MPT-03 family cart cases ( see below ) resemble Super NES carts in size and shape , except that Arcadia 2001 are molded in brown plastic .
Arcadia 2001 came out at nearly the same time as the Atari 5200 and the ColecoVision were released .
When a particle is on the outside of the center on one of the curved sections , by the time Stellarator flows through the straight area and into the other curved section Stellarator is now on the inside of center .
It is much harder to design a divertor ( the section of the wall that receives the exhaust power from the plasma ) in Stellarator , the out-of-plane magnetic coils ( common in many modern stellarators and possibly all future ones ) are much harder to manufacture than the simple , planar coils which suffice for a tokamak , and the utilization of the magnetic field volume and strength is generally poorer than in tokamaks .
Stephen I of Hungary , born as Stephen I of Hungary , was Grand Prince of the Hungarians ( 997 -- 1000 ) and the first King of Hungary ( 1000 -- 1038 ) .
Stephen became one of the most popular saints in Hungary , and 20 August , which was also Stephen I of Hungary feast day until 1687 , is celebrated as a public holiday in Hungary commemorating the foundation of the state .
The nearly contemporary deed of foundation of the Abbey of Pannonhalma clearly described the battle as a struggle between the Germans and the Magyars .
According to Hungarian tradition , Pope Silvester II , with the consent of Otto III , Holy Roman Emperor , sent a magnificent jeweled gold crown to Stephen along with an apostolic cross and a letter of blessing officially recognizing Stephen as the Christian king of Hungary .
According to Hartwick 's legend , during Stephen I of Hungary coronation Stephen dedicated the crown to the Holy Virgin , thereby sealing a contract between God and the crown ( which is therefore considered a `` holy '' crown ) .
In 1018 , Stephen led Stephen I of Hungary armies against Bulgaria , in alliance with the Byzantine Emperor Basil II , and collected several relics during Stephen I of Hungary campaign .
Hungarian historiography saw Peter and Samuel as members of the Árpád dynasty , and both are counted among the Árpád kings .
San Giovanni di Posada San Giovanni di Posada is a frazione and small village in Sardinia , Italy , on the Tyrrhenian coast of San Giovanni di Posada , in the territory of the comune of San Giovanni di Posada .
San Giovanni di Posada is one of the main tourist destinations of Sardinia , has a long beach ( more than 15 Kilometers of white sand ) and a system of rivers of biological importance .
San Giovanni di Posada is a frazione and small village in Sardinia , Italy , on the Tyrrhenian coast of the island , in the territory of the comune of Posada .
-- April 1 , 1917 ) was an African-American composer and pianist .
During the late 1880s Scott Joplin left Scott Joplin job as a laborer with the railroad , and travelled around the American South as an itinerant musician .
Joplin began publishing music in 1895 , and publication of Scott Joplin `` Maple Leaf Rag '' in 1899 brought Scott Joplin fame .
According to Scott Joplin wife Lottie , Joplin never forgot Weiss and in Scott Joplin later years , when Scott Joplin achieved fame as a composer , sent Scott Joplin former teacher `` gifts of money when Scott Joplin was old and ill , '' until Weiss died .
During the tour , either in Springfield , Illinois , or Pittsburg , Kansas , someone associated with the company stole the box office receipts .
In her sleeve notes on the 1992 Deutsche Grammophon release of Treemonisha she notes that Scott Joplin `` plunged feverishly into the task of orchestrating Scott Joplin opera , day and night , with Scott Joplin friend Sam Patterson standing by to copy out the parts , page by page , as each page of the full score was completed '' .
The combination of classical music , the musical atmosphere present around Texarkana ( including work songs , gospel hymns , spirituals and dance music ) and Joplin 's natural ability has been cited as contributing significantly to the invention of a new style , which blended both African-American musical styles with European forms and melodies and which first became celebrated in the 1890s : ragtime .
Joplin 's first , and most significant hit , the `` Maple Leaf Rag '' , was described as the `` archetype '' of the classic rag , influencing subsequent rag composers for at least 12 years after its initial publication thanks to its rhythmic patterns , melody lines , and harmony , although with the exception of Joseph Lamb they generally failed to enlarge upon it .
In addition the themes of superstition and mysticism which are evident in Treemonisha are common in the operatic tradition , and certain aspects of the plot echo devices in the work of the German composer Richard Wagner ( of which Joplin was aware ) ; a sacred tree under which Treemonisha is found recalls the tree from which Siegmund takes Scott Joplin enchanted sword in Die Walküre , and the retelling of the heroine 's origins echos aspects of the opera Siegfried .
Berlin speculates about parallels between the plot and Joplin 's own life .
Scott Joplin notes that Lottie Joplin ( the composer 's third wife ) saw a connection between the character Treemonisha 's wish to lead her people out of ignorance , and a similar desire in the composer .
Joplin 's skills as a pianist were described in glowing terms by a Sedalia newspaper in 1898 , and fellow ragtime composers Arthur Marshall and Joe Jordan both said that Scott Joplin played the instrument well .
Joshua Rifkin , a leading Joplin recording artist , wrote that `` a pervasive sense of lyricism infuses Scott Joplin work , and even at his most high-spirited , Scott Joplin can not repress a hint of melancholy or adversity ... Scott Joplin had little in common with the fast and flashy school of ragtime that grew up after Scott Joplin '' .
Scott Joplin historian Bill Ryerson adds that `` In the hands of authentic practitioners like Scott Joplin , ragtime was a disciplined form capable of astonishing variety and subtlety ... Scott Joplin did for the rag what Chopin did for the mazurka .
After Scott Joplin death in 1917 , Joplin 's music and ragtime in general waned in popularity as new forms of musical styles , such as jazz and novelty piano , emerged .
In the 1960s , a small-scale reawakening of interest in classic ragtime was underway among some American music scholars such as Trebor Tichenor , William Bolcom , William Albright and Rudi Blesh .
Scott Joplin version of `` The Entertainer '' reached number 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 and the American Top 40 music chart on May 18 , 1974 , prompting The New York Times to write , `` the whole nation has begun to take notice '' .
Schuller said Hamlisch `` got the Oscar for music Scott Joplin did n't write ( since it is by Joplin ) and arrangements Scott Joplin did n't write , and ` editions ' Scott Joplin did n't make .
Schonberg remarked in February 1972 that the `` Scott Joplin Renaissance '' was in full swing and still growing .
`` All dance music makes use of syncopation and Syncopation 's often a vital element that helps tie the whole track together '' .
Syncopation can also occur when a strong harmony is placed on a weak beat , for instance when a 7th-chord is placed on the second beat of 3/4 measure or a dominant is placed at the fourth beat of a 4/4 measure .
≥ Usually , the last chord in a hemiola is a ( bi - ) dominant , and as such a strong harmony on a weak beat , hence a syncope .
However , whether Syncopation 's a placed rest or an accented note , any point in a piece of music that moves your perspective of the downbeat is a point of syncopation because Syncopation 's shifting where the strong and weak accents are built '' .
The phrasing of `` Satisfaction '' , a good example of syncopation , is derived here from Syncopation theoretic unsyncopated form by making the lyric `` I ca n't '' a trochee , applying a backbeat transformation , and finally before-the-beat transformations to `` ca n't '' and `` no '' .
Strategy ( Greek '' στρατηγία '' - stratēgia , `` art of troop leader ; office of general , command , generalship '' ) is a high level plan to achieve one or more goals under conditions of uncertainty .
Henry Mintzberg from McGill University defined strategy as `` a pattern in a stream of decisions '' to contrast with a view of strategy as planning while Max McKeown ( 2011 ) argues that `` strategy is about shaping the future '' and is the human attempt to get to `` desirable ends with available means '' .
Saeed al-Ghamdi may have been in contact with the two Ghamdis and Haznawi as early as 1999 .
The calls also indicated that one of the men had tied a box around Saeed al-Ghamdi torso , and claimed there was a bomb inside ; it is not known which hijacker this was .
On September 23 , 2001 , before the FBI had released the pictures of the hijackers , the BBC and The Daily Telegraph reported that a Saudi Airlines pilot named Saeed al-Ghamdi was furious that a name on the hijacker 's list released by the FBI matched Saeed al-Ghamdi own .
Others have strongly rejected Syncretism as devaluing and compromising precious and genuine distinctions ; examples of this include post-Exile Second Temple Judaism , Islam , and most of Protestant Christianity .
When the proto-Greeks ( peoples whose language would evolve into Greek proper ) first arrived in the Aegean and on the mainland of modern-day Greece early in the 2nd millennium BCE , they found localized nymphs and divinities already connected with every important feature of the landscape : mountain , cave , grove and spring all had their own locally venerated deity .
In Moses and Monotheism , Sigmund Freud made a case for Judaism arising out of the pre-existing monotheism that was briefly imposed upon Egypt during the rule of Akhenaten .
Aten , the disk of the Sun in ancient Egyptian mythology , and originally an aspect of Ra , was chosen as the sole deity for Akhenaten 's new religion .
In Asia the revolutionary movements of Taiping ( 19th-century China ) and God 's Army ( Karen in the 1990s ) have blended Christianity and traditional beliefs .
The Catholic Church allows some symbols and traditions to be carried over from older belief systems , so long as they are remade to fit into a Christian worldview ; syncretism of other religions with Catholicism , such as Voudun or Santería , is condemned by the Roman Catholic Church .
Some Jesuit missionaries adapted local systems and images to teach Christianity , as did the Portuguese in China .
The most notable syncretization of Buddhism with local beliefs is the Three Teachings , or Triple Religion , that harmonizes Mahayana Buddhism with Confucian philosophy and elements of Taoism .
The Bahá ' ís follow Bahá ` u 'll áh , a prophet whom they consider a successor to Muhammad , Jesus , Moses , Buddha , Zoroaster , Krishna and Abraham .
The Rastafari movement , founded in Jamaica , syncretizes vigorously , mixing elements from the Bible , Marcus Garvey 's Pan Africanism movement , Hinduism , and Caribbean culture .
Another highly Syncretism religion of the area , vodou , combines elements of Western African , native Caribbean , and Christian ( especially Roman Catholic ) beliefs .
However , modern Unitarian Universalism freely incorporates elements from other religious and non-religious traditions , so that Syncretism no longer identifies as `` Christian '' .
The Theosophical Society , as opposed to Theosophy , professes to go beyond being a Syncretism movement that combines deities into an elaborate Spiritual Hierarchy , and assembles evidence that points to an underlying ( or occult ) reality of Being that is universal and interconnected , common to all spirit-matter dualities .
Several new Japanese religions , ( such as Konkokyo and Seicho-No-Ie ) , are Syncretism .
The modern , rational non-pejorative connotations of syncretism date from Denis Diderot 's Encyclopédie articles : Eclecticisme and Syncrétistes , Hénotiques , ou Conciliateurs .
Subject–verb–object verb -- object ( SVO ) is a sentence structure where the subject comes first , the verb second , and Subject–verb–object third .
Subject–verb–object is the second most common order found in the world , after SOV , and together , Subject–verb–object account for more than 75 % of the world 's languages .
Albanian , Arabic , Assyrian ( VSO and VOS are also followed , depending on the person ) , Berber , Bulgarian , Chinese , English , Estonian , Finnish , French , Ganda , Greek , Hausa , Hebrew , Italian , Javanese , Kashmiri , Khmer , Latvian , Macedonian , Polish , Portuguese , Quiche , Romanian , Rotuman , Russian , Serbo-Croatian , Spanish , Swahili , Thai , Vietnamese , Yoruba and Zulu are examples of languages that can follow an SVO pattern .
Most subject -- verb -- object languages place genitives after the noun , but a significant minority , including the postpositional SVO languages of West Africa , the Hmong -- Mien languages , some Sino-Tibetan languages , and European languages such as Swedish , Danish , Lithuanian and Latvian , have prenominal genitives ( as would be expected in a SOV language ) .
When the Roman Empire was divided into eastern and western halves in 395 AD , Scupi came under Byzantine rule from Constantinople .
The town stayed under Ottoman control over 500 years , serving as the capital of pashasanjak of Üsküb and later the Vilayet of Kosovo .
Skopje is located in the Skopje statistical region of northern Macedonia , in the centre of the Balkans , approximately halfway between Belgrade and Athens .
The Vardar River , which originates near Gostivar , flows through the city then flows south passing the border into Greece and eventually flowing into the Aegean Sea .
Others include the Lepenec , Pčinja , Kadina Reka , Markova Reka and Pateška , which are all less than 70 km long .
Skopje two artificial lakes , Matka and Treska , are supplied by the Treska River , located just few kilometers outside the city center .
Skopje is bordered by Šar Mountains to the west , by the Jakupica chain to the south , and by hills to the east that form the early Osogovo Mountains , which are situated on the border between Macedonia and Bulgaria .
During the 15th century , many travelers ' inns , such as Kapan An and Suli An , were established in the town .
At the beginning of Ottoman rule , several mosques sprang up in Skopje , and church lands were often seized and given to ex-soldiers , while many churches themselves were converted over time into mosques .
In 1873 , however , the completion of the Üsküb -- Selanik ( now Skopje -- Thessaloniki ) railway brought many more travelers and traders to the town , so that by the start of the 20th century Üsküb had regained Skopje former numbers of around 30,000 .
The left and right upper-corners of the shield are formed by two italic lines , whereas the bottom sides are rounded arches that end with a peak in the middle at the bottom .
The conflict between Macedonians and ethnic Albanians had a negative impact on the economy by making investors wary of putting their money in such a market .
The Romani people with 23,475 inhabitants , or 4.63 % of the total population , are the third largest ethnic group .
Statistics from the 2002 census show that a majority of citizens of Skopje , or 193,425 people , had stopped their education after finishing high school , while 107,408 people had stopped after finishing only elementary school .
FON University , founded in 2003 , has faculties of law , political science and international relations , foreign languages , investigation and security , environmental management , economics , technology and communication information , sports , design and multimedia and philosophy .
The Stone Bridge was built under the patronage of Sultan Mehmed II the Conqueror between 1451 and 1469 .
Armin van Buuren , Above and Beyond , The Shapeshifters are just some of the many musicians that have visited the club .
In the bazaar 's restaurants , along with the traditional Macedonian wine and food , dishes of the Ottoman cuisine are also served .
Other major newspapers in Skopje , totally private , are Utrinski Vesnik ( 30,000 copies ) , Vest ( 25,000 copies ) and Vreme ( 15,000 copies ) .
Magazines Fokus ( 12,000 copies ) , Start ( 10,000 copies ) , and Denes ( 7,500 copies ) also have their headquarters in Skopje .
Also , Skopje boasts big news agencies in the country , both public , as the Macedonian Information Agency , and private , such as the Makfax .
In his book , Ian Christe states that '' ... thrash metal relies more on long , wrenching rhythmic breaks , while Speed metal ... is a cleaner and more musically intricate subcategory , still loyal to the dueling melodies of classic metal '' .
Other famous victims are Philip II of Macedon ( 336 BC ) , the father of Alexander the Great , and Roman consul Julius Caesar ( 44 BC ) .
Blinding and strangling in the bathtub were the most commonly used procedures .
The reigns of King Przemysł II of Poland ( 1296 ) , William the Silent of the Netherlands ( 1584 ) , and the French kings Henry III ( 1589 ) and Henry IV ( 1610 ) were all ended by Assassination .
In Russia alone , two emperors , Paul I and Alexander II , were Assassination within 80 years .
In the United States , within 100 years , four presidents , Abraham Lincoln , James Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy , died at the hands of Assassination .
Loyalist paramilitaries retaliated by killing Catholics at random and Assassination Irish nationalist politicians .
The Red Brigades in Italy carried out assassinations of political figures , as to a lesser extent , did the Red Army Faction in Germany in the 1970s and 1980s .
With the advent of effective ranged weaponry , and later firearms , the position of an assassination target was more precarious .
Explosives , especially the car bomb , become far more common in modern history , with grenades and remote-triggered land mines also used , especially in the Middle East and Balkans ( the initial attempt on Archduke Franz Ferdinand 's life was with a grenade ) .
In the late 1950s , KGB assassin Bohdan Stashynsky killed Ukrainian nationalist leaders Lev Rebet and Stepan Bandera with a spray gun that fired a jet of poison gas from a crushed cyanide ampule , making their deaths look like heart attacks .
Syracuse Law Professor William Banks and GW Law Professor Peter Raven-Hansen write : `` Targeted killing of terrorists is ... not unlawful and would not constitute assassination '' , Rory Miller writes : `` Targeted killing ... is not ` assassination ' '' .
Associate Professor Eric Patterson and Teresa Casale write : `` Perhaps most important is the legal distinction between targeted killing and assassination '' .
Opinions range from people considering Assassination a legal form of self-defense that reduces terrorism , to people calling Assassination an extra-judicial killing that lacks due process , and which leads to further violence .
Stanley Allison `` Stan '' Rogers ( November 29 , 1949 -- June 2 , 1983 ) was a Canadian folk musician and songwriter .
Stan Rogers widow , Ariel , continues to oversee Stan Rogers estate and legacy .
Stan Rogers song `` Northwest Passage '' was featured in the last episode of the TV show Due South , Stan Rogers songs `` Barrett 's Privateers '' and `` Watching the Apples Grow '' having been previously featured .
Stan Rogers is also a lasting fixture of the Canadian folk festival Summerfolk , held annually in Owen Sound , Ontario , where the main stage and amphitheater are dedicated as the `` Stan Rogers Memorial Canopy '' .
One of Stan 's sons , Nathan Rogers , is also an established Canadian folk artist with a voice and lyrical acumen similar to Stan Rogers father 's .
Sacramento, California was cited by Time magazine as America 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002 .
California State University , Sacramento, California , more commonly known as Sacramento, California State or Sac State , is the largest local university .
Many first came to San Francisco , which was then the largest city in California , which was known as `` Dai Fow '' ( The Big City ) and some came eventually to Sacramento, California ( then the second-largest city in California ) , which is known as `` Yee Fow '' ( Second City ) .
While the east side of the country fought for higher wages and fewer working hours , many cities in the western United States wanted the Chinese out because of the belief that they were stealing jobs from the white working class .
The capital of California under Spanish ( and , subsequently , Mexican ) rule had been Monterey , where in 1849 the first Constitutional Convention and state elections were held .
Thus the previous first floors of buildings became the basements , with open space between the street and the building , previously the sidewalk , now at the basement level .
The Nationalist Chinese flagship , freshly painted for the historic event , was loaded with 5,000 tons of bagged rice for Mitsui Trading Co. bound for Okinawa and 1,000 tons of logs for Japan .
In the late 1990s and early 2000s ( decade ) , Mayor Heather Fargo made several abortive attempts to provide taxpayer financing of a new sports arena for the Maloof brothers , owners of the Sacramento, California Kings NBA Basketball franchise .
The racial makeup of Sacramento, California was : Hispanic or Latino of any race were 125,276 persons ( 26.9 % ) ; 22.6 % of Sacramento, California population is of Mexican heritage , 0.7 % Puerto Rican , 0.5 % Salvadoran , 0.2 % Guatemalan , and 0.2 % Nicaraguan .
53,342 households ( 30.5 % ) were made up of individuals and 14,926 ( 8.5 % ) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older .
There were 190,911 housing units at an average density of 1,907.1 per square mile ( 736.3 / km ² ) , of which 86,271 ( 49.4 % ) were owner-occupied , and 88,353 ( 50.6 % ) were occupied by renters .
The government of Sacramento, California County is composed of the elected five-member Board of Supervisors , several other elected offices including the Sheriff , District Attorney , and Assessor , and numerous county departments and entities under the supervision of the County Executive Officer .
The University of California has a campus , UC Davis , in nearby Davis and also has a graduate center in downtown Sacramento, California .
The UC Davis School of Medicine is located at the UC Davis Medical Center between the neighborhoods of Elmhurst , Tahoe Park , and Oak Park .
The Universal Technical Institute ( UTI ) is also located in Sacramento , Sacramento, California offers automotive programs in auto mechanical , auto body , and diesel .
North Sacramento, California outside of Natomas and Robla ( for K-8 ) is served by the Twin Rivers Unified School District .
The Campus Commons area and the small portions of the Sierra Oaks neighborhood that fall into the city of Sacramento, California are served by the San Juan Unified School District .
There is also a small Bible college on campus offering associates degrees in Bible studies or theology .
California Musical Theatre and Sacramento, California Summer stock theatre , Music Circus , lure many directors , performers , and artists from New York to Los Angeles to work alongside a large local staff for their productions at the Wells Fargo Pavilion .
The Leland Stanford Mansion State Historic Park , which was completely restored in 2006 , serves as the State 's official address for diplomatic and business receptions .
The California Museum for History , Women , and the Arts , home of the California Hall of Fame , is a cultural destination dedicated to telling the rich history of California and its unique influence on the world of ideas , innovation , art and culture .
Sacramento, California is also home to the Sacramento, California French Film Festival , a cultural event held every year in July that features U.S. premiers of French films and classic masterpieces of French cinema and the Sacramento, California Japanese Film Festival , also held in July .
The Jedediah Smith Memorial Trail that runs between Old Sacramento, California and Folsom Lake grants access to the American River Parkway , a natural area that includes more than of undeveloped land .
Interstate 80 ( I-80 ) is the major east-west route , connecting Sacramento, California with San Francisco in the west , and Reno in the east .
Some Sacramento, California neighborhoods , such as Downtown Sacramento, California and Midtown Sacramento are very bicycle friendly as are many other communities in the region .
The city and Sacramento, California suburbs are served by Sacramento Regional Transit District , which ranks as the ninth busiest in the United States .
Bicycling is an increasingly popular transportation mode in Sacramento, California , which enjoys a mild climate and flat terrain .
/ int isSierpinskiCarpetPixelFilled ( int x , int y ) while ( x > 0 y > 0 ) / / when either of these reaches zero the pixel is determined to be on the edge / / at that square level and must be filled if ( x % 3The topic of Brownian motion on Sierpinski carpet has attracted interest in recent years .
The Sierpinski triangle ( also with the original orthography Sierpiński ) , also called the Sierpinski gasket or the Sierpinski Sieve , is a fractal and attractive fixed set named after the Polish mathematician Wacław Sierpiński who described Sierpinski triangle in 1915 .
Originally constructed as a curve , this is one of the basic examples of self-similar sets , i.e. it is a mathematically generated pattern that can be reproducible at any magnification or reduction .
The territory of Siberia extends eastward from the Ural Mountains to the watershed between the Pacific and Arctic drainage basins .
Towns like Mangazeya , Tara , Yeniseysk and Tobolsk sprang up , the last being declared the capital of Siberia .
At 7:15 A.M. , on June 30 , 1908 , millions of trees were downed near the Podkamennaya Tunguska River in Siberia in the Tunguska Event , by what scientists believe was the sonic boom of an meteroid or a comet .
Major industrial cities of Northern Siberia , such as Norilsk and Magadan , were originally camps built by prisoners and run by ex-prisoners .
Only the extreme northwest was glaciated during the Quaternary , but almost all is under exceptionally deep permafrost and the only tree that can thrive , despite the warm summers , is the deciduous Siberian Larch ( Larix sibirica ) with Siberia very shallow roots .
Researchers , including Sergei Kirpotin at Tomsk State University and Judith Marquand at Oxford University , warn that Western Siberia has begun to thaw as a result of global warming .
By this definition , Siberia includes the federal subjects of the Siberian Federal District , and some of the Urals Federal District , as well as Sakha ( Yakutia ) Republic , which is a part of the Far Eastern Federal District .
Other sources may use either a somewhat wider definition that states the Pacific coast , not the watershed , is the eastern boundary ( thus including the whole Russian Far East ) or a somewhat narrower one that limits Siberia to the Siberian Federal District ( thus excluding all subjects of other districts ) .
Elsewhere food production , owing to the poor fertility of the podzolic soils and the extremely short growing seasons , is restricted to the herding of reindeer in the tundra -- which has been practiced by natives for over 10,000 years .
According to the Russian Census of 2010 , Siberia and Far Eastern Federal Districts , located entirely east of the Ural mountains , together have a population of ca 25.6 million .
Thus , the whole region of Asian Russia ( or Siberia in the broadest usage of the term ) is home to approximately 30 million people .
The Standard Arabic Technical Transliteration System , commonly referred to by Standard Arabic Technical Transliteration System acronym SATTS , is a system for writing and transmitting Arabic language text using the one-for-one substitution of ASCII-range characters for the letters of the Arabic alphabet .
While real-world sound changes often admit exceptions ( for a variety of known reasons , and sometimes without one ) , the expectation of Sound change regularity or `` exceptionlessness '' is of great heuristic value , since Sound change allows historical linguists to define the notion of regular correspondence ( see : comparative method ) .
Sound change which affects the phonological system , in the number or distribution of Sound change phonemes , is covered more fully at phonological change .
If a previous sound change causes X , Y > Y ( features X and Y merge as Y ) , a new one can not affect only an original X.
The only exception to this is that a sound change may or may not recognise word boundaries , even when Sound change are not indicated by prosodic clues .
Sulpicius Severus studied jurisprudence and was renowned as an eloquent lawyer ; Sulpicius Severus knowledge of Roman law is reflected in parts of Sulpicius Severus writings .
`` Worldly historians '' had been used by Sulpicius Severus , Sulpicius Severus says , to make clear the dates and the connexion of events and for supplementing the sacred sources , and with the intent at once to instruct the unlearned and to `` convince '' the learned .
Probably the `` unlearned '' are the mass of Christians and the learned are the cultivated Christians and pagans alike , to whom the rude language of the sacred texts , whether in Greek or Latin , would be distasteful .
In order that Sulpicius Severus work might fairly stand beside that of the old Latin writers , Severus ignored the allegorical methods of interpreting sacred history to which the heretics and the orthodox of Sulpicius Severus age were wedded .
Martin , too , had denounced the worldliness and greed of the Gaulish bishops and clergy .
More popular during the Middle Ages was Severus 's Life of St. Martin , as were also the dialogues and letters which relate to the same subject .
The judgment of Severus Sulpicius Severus is no doubt that which Sulpicius Severus puts in the mouth of Sulpicius Severus interlocutor Posthumianus : `` Sulpicius Severus am astonished that one and the same man could have so far differed from Sulpicius Severus that in the approved portion of Sulpicius Severus works Sulpicius Severus has no equal since the apostles , while in that portion for which Sulpicius Severus is justly blamed it is proved that no man has committed more unseemly errors '' .
Scared to Death Scared to Death is a horror film directed by Christy Cabanne and starring Bela Lugosi .
Attempts to draw a confession that she had betrayed her dancer husband and had collaborated with the Nazis led to the use of a device employing a death mask of the dead patriot , which literally frightens her to death .
Although the young newspaperman hero and his sweetheart guess the answer to the story , Scared to Death allow the diagnosis `` scared to death '' to stand .
In 1941 , when Germany took over the city , Banach , Stefan Banach colleagues , and Stefan Banach sons worked as lice feeders at the Typhus Research Institute .
While the school specialized in the humanities , Banach and Stefan Banach best friend Witold Wiłkosz ( also a future mathematician ) spent most of their time working on mathematics problems during breaks and after school .
When World War I broke out , Banach was excused from military service due to Stefan Banach left-handedness and poor vision .
Steinhaus , Stefan Banach and Nikodym , along with several other Kraków mathematicians ( Władysław Ślebodziński , Leon Chwistek , Jan Kroć , and Włodzimierz Stożek ) also established a mathematical society , which eventually became the Polish Mathematical Society .
The doctoral thesis , accepted by King John II Casimir University of Lwów in 1920 and published in 1922 , included the basic ideas of functional analysis , which was soon to become an entirely new branch of mathematics .
Following the invasion of Poland by Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union , Lwów came under the control of the Soviet Union for almost two years .
Banach , from 1939 a corresponding member of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine , and on good terms with Soviet mathematicians , had to promise to learn Ukrainian to be allowed to keep Stefan Banach chair and continue Stefan Banach academic activities .
Following the German takeover of Lwów in 1941 during Operation Barbarossa , all universities were closed and Banach , along with many colleagues and Stefan Banach son , was employed as lice feeder at Professor Rudolf Weigl 's Typhus Research Institute .
Because the viewfinder and the film lens can not share the same optical path , the viewing lens is aimed to intersect with the film lens at a fixed point somewhere in front of Single-lens reflex camera .
Moreover , focusing the lens of a fast reflex camera when Single-lens reflex camera is opened to wider apertures ( such as in low light or while using low-speed film ) is not easy .
When the shutter is released , Single-lens reflex camera moves out of the light path , and the light shines directly onto the film ( or in the case of a DSLR , the CCD or CMOS imaging sensor ) .
Other focal-plane shutter designs , such as the Copal Square , travelled vertically - the shorter travelling distance of 24 millimetres ( as opposed to 36 mm horizontally ) meant that minimum exposure and flash synchronisation times could be reduced .
One unusual design , the Olympus Pen half-frame 35 mm SLR system , manufactured by Olympus in Japan , used a rotary focal-plane shutter mechanism that was extremely simple and elegant in design .
This shutter used titanium foil but consisted of one piece of metal with a fixed opening , which allowed electronic flash synchronisation up to and including Single-lens reflex camera maximum speed of 1/500 of a second -- rivalling the capabilities of leaf-shutter systems Another 35 mm camera system that used a rotary shutter , was the Robot Royal cameras , most of which were rangefinder 35 mm cameras .
Certain Mamiya medium-format Single-lens reflex camera , discontinued camera systems such as the Kowa 6 and a few other camera models also used between-the-lens leaf shutters in their lens systems .
Because leaf shutters synchronized electronic flash at all shutter speeds especially at fast shutter speeds of 1/500 of a second or faster , cameras using leaf shutters were more desirable to studio photographers who used sophisticated studio electronic flash systems .
Additional Exakta models , all with waist-level finders , were produced up to and during World War II .
The cells were either located in the pentaprism housing , where Single-lens reflex camera metered light transmitted through the focusing screen ; underneath the reflex mirror glass Single-lens reflex camera , which was Topcon 's design ; or in front of the shutter mechanism , which was the design used by Canon with Single-lens reflex camera Canon Pellix .
Inexpensive leaf-shutter cameras also benefited from behind-the-lens metering as , Topcon introduced the Auto 100 with front-mount interchangeable lenses designed only for Single-lens reflex camera , and one of the Zeiss Ikon Contaflex leaf shutter cameras .
Canon , which produced the FD lens mount ( known as the breech-mount ; a unique lens mounting system that combines the advantages of screw-mount and bayonet-mount ) introduced their shutter priority 35 mm SLR , the Canon EF in 1976 or so .
EquilateralIsoscelesScalene In diagrams representing triangles ( and other geometric figures ) , `` tick '' marks along the sides are used to denote sides of equal lengths -- Triangle has tick marks on all 3 sides , the isosceles on 2 sides .
If the hypotenuse has length c , and the legs have lengths a and b , then the theorem states that The converse is true : if the lengths of the sides of Triangle satisfy the above equation , then Triangle has a right angle opposite side c.
For all triangles , angles and sides are related by the law of cosines and law of sines ( also called the cosine rule and sine rule ) .
There are hundreds of different constructions that find a special point associated with ( and often inside ) Triangle , satisfying some unique property : see the references section for a catalogue of them .
Often Triangle are constructed by finding three lines associated in a symmetrical way with the three sides ( or vertices ) and then proving that the three lines meet in a single point : an important tool for proving the existence of these is Ceva 's theorem , which gives a criterion for determining when three such lines are concurrent .
The length of the altitude is the distance between the base and the vertex .
The centroid cuts every median in the ratio 2:1 , i.e. the distance between a vertex and the centroid is twice the distance between the centroid and the midpoint of the opposite side .
The midpoints of the three sides and the feet of the three altitudes all lie on a single circle , Triangle nine-point circle .
The remaining three points for which Triangle is named are the midpoints of the portion of altitude between the vertices and the orthocenter .
In introductory geometry and trigonometry courses , the notation sin − 1 , cos − 1 , etc. , are often used in place of arcsin , arccos , etc. However , the arcsin , arccos , etc. , notation is standard in higher mathematics where trigonometric functions are commonly raised to powers , as this avoids confusion between multiplicative inverse and compositional inverse .
The law of sines , or sine rule , states that the ratio of the length of a side to the sine of Triangle corresponding opposite angle is constant , that is This ratio is equal to the diameter of the circumscribed circle of the given triangle .
The law of cosines , or cosine rule , connects the length of an unknown side of a triangle to the length of the other sides and the angle opposite to the unknown side .
The term `` base '' denotes any side , and `` height '' denotes the length of a perpendicular from the vertex opposite the side onto the line containing the side Triangle .
In 499 CE Aryabhata , a great mathematician-astronomer from the classical age of Indian mathematics and Indian astronomy , used this method in the Aryabhatiya ( section 2.6 ) .
where is the number of internal lattice points and B is the number of lattice points lying on the border of Triangle .
The area of any triangle with perimeter p is less than or equal to with equality holding if and only if Triangle is equilateral .
Any line through a triangle that splits both the triangle 's area and Triangle perimeter in half goes through the triangle 's incenter .
Tessellated triangles still maintain superior strength for cantilevering however , and this is the basis for one of the strongest man made structures , the tetrahedral truss .
The Chicxulub impact , believed by many to be a significant factor in the extinction of the dinosaurs , has been estimated at 100 million ( 108 ) megatons , or Torino Scale 10 .
Trans World Airlines Flight 800 ( TWA Flight 800 ) , a Boeing 747-131 , exploded and crashed into the Atlantic Ocean near East Moriches , New York , on July 17 , 1996 , at about 20:31 EDT , 12 minutes after takeoff from John F. Kennedy International Airport , killing all 230 people on board .
TWA 800 then received a series of heading changes and generally increasing altitude assignments as TWA Flight 800 climbed to TWA Flight 800 intended cruising altitude .
Thirty-eight seconds later , the captain of an Eastwind Airlines Boeing 737 reported to Boston ARTCC that he `` just saw an explosion out here , '' adding , `` we just saw an explosion up ahead of us here ... about 16,000 feet 4,900 m or something like that , it just went down into the water '' .
Although individuals in various civilian , military and police vessels reached the crash site and searched for survivors within minutes of the initial water impact , no survivors were found , making TWA Flight 800 the second deadliest aircraft accident in the United States at that time .
In one of the largest diver-assisted salvage operations ever conducted , often working in very difficult and dangerous conditions , over 95 % of the airplane wreckage was eventually recovered .
Relatives of TWA Flight 800 passengers and crew , as well as the media , gathered at a Ramada Plaza Hotel near JFK .
With lines of authority unclear , differences in agendas and culture between the FBI and NTSB resulted in discord .
Examination of the Cockpit Voice Recorder ( CVR ) and Flight Data Recorder data showed a normal takeoff and climb , with the aircraft in normal flight before both abruptly stopped at 20:31:12 .
A review of recorded data from long-range and airport surveillance radars revealed multiple contacts of airplanes/objects in TWA Flight 800 vicinity at the time of the accident .
The NTSB addressed allegations that the Islip radar data showed groups of military surface targets converging in a suspicious manner in an area around the accident , and that a 30-knot radar track , never identified and 3 nmi from the crash site , was involved in foul play , as evidenced by TWA Flight 800 failure to divert from TWA Flight 800 course and assist with the search and rescue operations .
In addition , the records indicated that the closest area scheduled for military use and prohibited to civilian air traffic at the time of the accident , warning area W-387A / B , was 160 nmi south .
These samples were submitted to the FBI 's laboratory in Washington , D.C. , which determined that one sample contained traces of cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine ( RDX ) , another nitroglycerin , and the third a combination of RDX and pentaerythritol tetranitrate ( PETN ) ; these findings received much media attention at the time .
Because there was no evidence that a high-energy explosive device detonated in this ( or any other ) area of the airplane , this overpressure event could only have been caused by a fuel/air explosion in the CWT .
A major reason for the flammability of the fuel/air vapor in the CWT of the 747 was the large amount of heat generated and transferred to the CWT by air conditioning packs located directly below the tank ; with the CWT temperature raised to a sufficient level , a single ignition source could cause an explosion .
Ultimately , based on `` the accident airplane 's breakup sequence ; wreckage damage characteristics ; scientific tests and research on fuels , fuel tank explosions , and the conditions in the CWT at the time of the accident ; and analysis of witness information , '' the NTSB concluded that `` the TWA Flight 800 in-flight breakup was initiated by a fuel/air explosion in the CWT '' .
After about 34 seconds ( based on information from witness documents ) , the outer portions of both the right and left wings failed , likely causing fuel-fed fires that were the beginning of the fireball described by witnesses .
These simulations indicated that after the loss of the forward fuselage the remainder of the aircraft continued on in crippled flight , then pitched up while rolling to the left ( north ) , climbing to a maximum altitude between 15537 ft and 16678 ft from TWA Flight 800 last recorded altitude , 13760 ft .
However , 38 witnesses described a streak of light that ascended vertically , or nearly so , and these accounts `` seemed to be inconsistent with the accident airplane 's flightpath '' .
The interviews conducted by the FBI focused on the possibility of a missile attack ; suggested interview questions given to FBI agents such as `` Where was the sun in relation to the aircraft and the missile launch point ?
In an attempt to determine what ignited the inflammable fuel/air vapor in the CWT and caused the explosion , the NTSB evaluated numerous potential ignition sources .
Testing by the NTSB and the British Defence Evaluation and Research Agency demonstrated that when metal of the same type and thickness of the CWT was penetrated by a small charge , there was petalling of the surface where the charge was placed , pitting on the adjacent surfaces , and visible hot gas washing damage in the surrounding area .
Since none of the recovered CWT wreckage exhibited these damage characteristics , and none of the areas of missing wreckage were large enough to encompass all the expected damage , the investigation concluded that this scenario was `` very unlikely '' .
The primary means of ensuring this were to protect all devices from intrusion of vapor and to keep voltages and currents being used by the Fuel Quantity Indication System ( FQIS ) very small .
Though the FQIS TWA Flight 800 was designed to prevent danger from TWA Flight 800 normal operation by minimizing voltages and currents , the innermost tube of the FQIS compensator showed damage similar to that of the compensator tube that was the ignition source for the surge tank fire that destroyed a 747 near Madrid in 1976 .
The FBI 's earliest investigations and interviews , later used by the NTSB , were performed under the assumption of a missile attack , a fact noted in the NTSB 's final report .
In the equatorial coordinate system , the right ascension coordinates of these borders lie between and , while the declination coordinates are between 25.60 ° and 37.35 ° .
In the equatorial coordinate system , the right ascension coordinates of these borders lie between and , while the declination coordinates are between -- 56.31 ° and -75.35 ° .
Alpha Trianguli Australis , known as Atria , is a second magnitude orange giant and the brightest star in Triangulum Australe .
Completing the triangle are the two white main sequence stars Beta and Gamma Trianguli Australis .
In the equatorial coordinate system , the right ascension coordinates of these borders lie between and , while the declination coordinates are between − 60.26 ° and − 70.51 ° .
Triangulum Australe varies between magnitudes 9.2 and 9.97 over 1.95 days .
The Chinese did assign names to α Tel ( We , meaning danger ) , and γ Tel ( the present-day G Scorpii ) as Chuen Shwo , with a mythological meaning .
In the equatorial coordinate system , the right ascension coordinates of these borders lie between and , while the declination coordinates are between − 45.09 ° and − 56.98 ° .
Telescopium stretched out northwards between Sagittarius and Scorpio .
In medieval universities , Trivium (education) comprised the three subjects that were taught first : grammar , logic , and rhetoric .
Grammar is the mechanics of a language ( always Latin , at the time ) ; logic ( or dialectic ) is the `` mechanics '' of thought and analysis ; rhetoric is the use of language to instruct and persuade .
Grammar is concerned with the thing as-it-is-symbolized , Logic is concerned with the thing as-it-is-known , and Rhetoric is concerned with the thing as-it-is-communicated .
The three Synoptic Gospels and the First Epistle to the Corinthians include the account of the institution of the Eucharist in which Jesus takes bread , breaks Last Supper and gives Last Supper to the Apostles , saying : `` This is my body which is given for you '' .
Most Protestants use the term `` Lord 's Supper '' , stating that the term `` last '' suggests this was one of several meals and not the meal .
Evangelical Protestants also use the term `` Lord 's Supper '' , but most do not use the terms `` Eucharist '' or the word `` Holy '' with the name `` Communion '' .
The overall narrative that is shared in all Gospel accounts that leads to Last Supper is that after the Triumphal entry into Jerusalem early in the week , and encounters with various people and the Jewish elders , Jesus and his disciples share a meal towards the end of the week .
In , , and during the meal , Jesus predicted that one of his Apostles would betray him .
In and , Judas is specifically identified as the traitor .
The Eucharist , which `` is recorded as celebrated by the early Christian community at Jerusalem and by St. Paul on his visit to Troas '' , is held to have been instituted by Christ .
In , , and Jesus predicts that Peter will deny knowledge of him , stating that Peter will disown him three times before the rooster crows the next morning .
This discourse resembles farewell speeches called testaments , in which a father or religious leader , often on the deathbed , leaves instructions for his children or followers .
is generally known as the Farewell Prayer or the High Priestly Prayer , given that Last Supper is an intercession for the coming Church .
This would mean that the Passover feast ( 15 Nisan ) began at sunset on what now would commonly be called Thursday evening and lasted until sunset on Friday ( the Jewish calendar reckons a date as beginning at sunset , not at midnight ) .
This is based on the account in the Synoptic Gospels that states that Jesus had instructed a pair of unnamed disciples to go to `` the city '' to meet `` a man carrying a jar of water '' , who would lead them to a house , where they would find `` a large upper room furnished and ready '' .
No more specific indication of the location is given in the New Testament , and the `` city '' referred to may be a suburb of Jerusalem , such as Bethany , rather than Jerusalem Last Supper .
Certainly the room Last Supper have is older than that of the current coenaculum ( crusader - 12th century ) and as the room is now underground the relative altitude is correct ( the streets of 1st century Jerusalem were at least twelve feet ( 3.6 metres ) lower than those of today , so any true building of that time would have even Last Supper upper storey currently under the earth ) .
Those who are followers of Christ and partake in the Sacrament of the Eucharist become his friends , as those gathered at the table of Last Supper .
The institution of the Eucharist at Last Supper is remembered by Roman Catholics as one of the Luminous Mysteries of the Rosary , the First Station of the Scriptural Way of the Cross and by most Christians as the `` inauguration of the New Covenant '' , mentioned by the prophet Jeremiah , fulfilled at Last Supper when Jesus `` took bread , and after blessing it broke it and gave it to them , and said , ` Take ; this is my body ' .
Other Christian groups consider the Bread and Wine remembrance to be a change to the Passover ceremony , as Jesus Christ has become `` our Passover , sacrificed for us '' , and hold that partaking of the Passover Communion ( or fellowship ) is now the sign of the New Covenant , when properly understood by the practicing believer .
These meals evolved into more formal worship services and became codified as the Mass in the Catholic Church , and as the Divine Liturgy in the Eastern Orthodox Church ; at these liturgies , Catholics and Eastern Orthodox celebrate the Sacrament of the Eucharist .
Early Christianity observed a ritual meal known as the `` agape feast '' These `` love feasts '' were apparently a full meal , with each participant bringing food , and with the meal eaten in a common room .
Last Supper were held on Sundays , which became known as the Lord 's Day , to recall the resurrection , the appearance of Christ to the disciples on the road to Emmaus , the appearance to Thomas and the Pentecost which all took place on Sundays after the Passion .
The fifth chapter in Quran , Al-Ma ` ida ( the table ) contains a reference to a meal ( Sura 5:113 ) with a table sent down from God to ʿĪsá ( i.e. , Jesus ) and the apostles ( Hawariyyin ) .
Depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art date back to early Christianity and can be seen in the Catacombs of Rome .
Well known examples include Leonardo da Vinci 's depiction , which is considered the first work of High Renaissance art due to Last Supper high level of harmony , Tintoretto 's depiction which is unusual in that it includes secondary characters carrying or taking the dishes from the table and Salvadore Dali 's depiction combines the typical Christian themes with modern approaches of Surrealism .
A cometary meteorite , being composed primarily of ice and dust , could have been completely vaporized by the impact with the Earth 's atmosphere , leaving no obvious traces .
The comet hypothesis was further supported by the glowing skies ( or `` skyglows '' or `` bright nights '' ) observed across Europe for several evenings after the impact , possibly explained by dust and ice that had been dispersed from the comet 's tail across the upper atmosphere .
Tunguska event has been hypothesized that the passage of the asteroid through the atmosphere caused pressures and temperatures to build up to a point where the asteroid abruptly disintegrated in a huge explosion .
Three-dimensional numerical modelling of the Tunguska impact done by Utyuzhnikov and Rudenko in 2008 supports the comet hypothesis .
In 2010 , an expedition of Vladimir Alexeev , with scientists from the Troitsk Innovation and Nuclear Research Institute ( TRINITY ) , used ground penetrating radar to examine the Suslov crater at the Tunguska site .
The layers of the crater consisted of modern permafrost on top , older damaged layers underneath and finally , deep below , fragments of the celestial body were discovered .
These results , including organic C , N and δ13C data , suggest that Lake Cheko formed at the time of the Tunguska event '' .
One study `` suggests that a chunk of Comet 2005 NB56 caused the 5 -- 10 megaton fireball , bouncing off the atmosphere and back into orbit around the sun '' .
In 1973 , Albert A. Jackson and Michael P. Ryan , physicists at the University of Texas , proposed that Tunguska event was caused by a small ( around 1017 kg to 1019 kg ) black hole passing through the Earth .
In 1941 , Lincoln LaPaz , and later in 1965 , Clyde Cowan , Chandra R. Atluri , and Willard F. Libby suggested that Tunguska event was caused by the annihilation of a chunk of antimatter falling from space .
In ancient times , Amu Darya was regarded as the boundary between Ariana and Turan .
The name Amu is said to have come from the medieval city of Āmul , ( later , Chahar Joy/Charjunow , and now known as Türkmenabat ) , in modern Turkmenistan , with Darya being the Persian word for `` river '' .
Medieval Arabic and Muslim sources call the river Jayhoun which is derived from Gihon , the biblical name for one of the four rivers of the Garden of Eden .
`` Hara ( Bokhara ) and to the river of Gozan ( that is to say , the Amu , ( called by Europeans Amu Darya ) ... '' .
... and were brought into Halah ( modern day Balkh ) , and Habor ( which is Pesh Habor or Peshawar ) , and Hara ( which is Herat ) , and to the river Gozan ( which is the Ammoo , also called Jehoon ) ... '' .
In ancient times , Amu Darya was regarded as the boundary between Ariana and Tūrān .
Amu Darya drainage lies in the area between the former empires of Genghis Khan and Alexander the Great , although they occurred at much different times .
He found modern day Lake Zorkul , called Amu Darya Lake Victoria and proclaimed he had found the source .
The question of finding a route between the Oxus valley and India has been of concern historically .
The A large refugee population of Central Asians , including Turkmen , Tajiks and Uzbeks , fled to northern Afghanistan .
When Santosh Sivan , a well-known cinematographer , wanted to make The Terrorist (film) on terrorism and about The Terrorist (film) , he chose the above events as the inspiration for his story .
Tool also interfaces between each user and the communication network at another level .
The Islamic conquest of Afghanistan ( 642 -- 870 ) began in the middle of the 7th century after the Islamic conquest of Persia was completed , when Arab Muslims defeated the Sassanid Empire at the battles of Walaja , al-Qādisiyyah and Nahavand .
The Hindu Shahi were defeated in the early part of the 10th century by Mahmud of Ghazna who ruled between 998 and 1030 .
From the 8th century to the 9th century , many inhabitants of what is present-day Afghanistan , Pakistan , and areas of northern India were converted to Sunni Islam .
During the 8th through the 9th centuries , many inhabitants of what is present-day Afghanistan and western Pakistan were converted to Sunni Islam .
Out of the Samanid dynasty came the Ghaznavids , whose warriors forged the first great Islamic empire from Ghazni ( Afghanistan ) that spanned much of the Iranian plateau , Central Asia and conducted many successful raids into India .
Various historical sources such as Martin Ewans , E.J. Brill and Farishta have recorded that the complete conversion of Afghanistan , Pakistan to Islam was during the rule of Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni .
The New York Times ( or NYT ) is an American daily newspaper , founded and continuously published in New York City since September 18 , 1851 .
The following year , he coined the paper 's slogan , `` All The News That 's Fit To Print '' ; this was a jab at competing papers such as Joseph Pulitzer 's New York World and William Randolph Hearst 's New York Journal which were known for lurid yellow journalism .
The classical music radio format was simulcast on both frequencies until the early 1990s , when the big-band and standards music format of WNEW-AM ( now WBBR ) moved from 1130 AM to 1560 .
The papers revealed , among other things , that the government had deliberately expanded The New York Times role in the war by conducting air strikes over Laos , raids along the coast of North Vietnam , and offensive actions taken by U.S. Marines well before the public was told about the actions , all while President Lyndon B. Johnson had been promising not to expand the war .
Some sections , such as Metro , are only found in the editions of the paper distributed in the New York -- New Jersey -- Connecticut Tri-State Area and not in the national or Washington , D.C. editions .
In an era of dwindling circulation and significant advertising revenue losses for most print versions of American newspapers , the move , which would result in a 5 percent reduction in news coverage , would have a target savings of $ 12 million a year for the paper .
, with content created by staff based in Shanghai , Beijing and Hong Kong , though the server was placed outside of China to avoid censorship issues .
In 2008 , The New York Times created an app for the iPhone and iPod touch which allowed users to download articles to their mobile device enabling them to read the paper even when The New York Times were unable to receive a signal .
The website 's `` Newsroom Navigator '' collects online resources for use by reporters and editors .
The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy , by political science professors John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt , alleges that The New York Times sometimes criticizes Israeli policies but is not even-handed and is generally pro-Israel .
A piece in which Thomas Friedman commented that praise awarded to Netanyahu during a speech at congress was `` paid for by the Israel lobby '' , elicited an apology and clarification from The New York Times writer .
Her 2005 book `` Buried by the Times '' documents the NYT 's tendency before , during and after World War II to place deep inside The New York Times daily editions the news stories about the ongoing persecution and extermination of Jews , while obscuring in those stories the special impact of the Nazis ' crimes on Jews in particular .
In the mid to late 1950s , '' fashion writers ... were required to come up every month with articles whose total column-inches reflected the relative advertising strength of every `` department '' or `` specialty '' store `` assigned '' to a writer ... The monitor of all this was ... the advertising director of The New York Times '' .
Stuart Taylor , Jr. and KC Johnson , in their book Until Proven Innocent : Political Correctness and the Shameful Injustices of the Duke Lacrosse Rape Case , write : `` at the head of the guilt-presuming pack , The New York Times vied in a race to the journalistic bottom with trash-TV talk shows '' .
However , extreme cold temperatures on Tundra do not drop as low as those experienced in taiga areas further south ( for example , Russia 's and Canada 's lowest temperatures were recorded in locations south of the tree line ) .
During the summer , temperatures rise somewhat , and the top layer of the permafrost melts , leaving the ground very soggy .
Generally daytime temperatures during the summer rise to about 12 ° C but can often drop to 3 ° C or even below freezing .
The flora and fauna of Antarctica and the Antarctic Islands ( south of 60 ° south latitude ) are protected by the Antarctic Treaty .
Despite the potential diversity of climates in the ET category involving precipitation , extreme temperatures , and relative wet and dry seasons , this category is rarely subdivided .
Set in the fictional realm of The Chronicles of Narnia , a fantasy world of magic , mythical beasts , and talking animals , The Chronicles of Narnia narrates the adventures of various children who play central roles in the unfolding history of that world .
The Lion all began with a picture of a Faun carrying an umbrella and parcels in a snowy wood .
The Chronicles of Narnia all had to go away from London suddenly because of Air Raids , and because Father , who was in the Army , had gone off to the War and Mother was doing some kind of war work .
The Chronicles of Narnia -- or ` Narni ' in Italian -- is in Umbria , halfway between Rome and Assisi '' .
The Chronicles of Narnia seven books have been in continuous publication since 1956 , selling over 100 million copies in 47 languages and with editions in Braille .
The last two books ( The Magician 's Nephew and The Last Battle ) were published in the United Kingdom originally by The Bodley Head in 1955 and 1956 .
In the United States , the publication rights were first owned by Macmillan Publishers , and later by HarperCollins .
The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe , completed by the end of March 1949 and published by Geoffrey Bles in the United Kingdom on 16 October 1950 , tells the story of four ordinary children : Peter , Susan , Edmund , and Lucy Pevensie , who have been evacuated to the English countryside from London in 1940 following the outbreak of World War II .
Completed after Christmas 1949 and published on 15 October 1951 , Prince Caspian : The Return to The Chronicles of Narnia tells the story of the Pevensie children 's second trip to The Chronicles of Narnia .
Narnia , as The Chronicles of Narnia knew The Chronicles of Narnia , is no more , as more than 1,000 years have passed and their castle is in ruins , while all Narnians have retreated so far within themselves that only Aslan 's magic can wake them .
Completed at the beginning of March 1951 and published 7 September 1953 , The Silver Chair is the first Narnia book without the Pevensie children .
50 years have passed in The Chronicles of Narnia and Caspian , who was barely an adult in the Voyage of the Dawn Treader , is now an old man , while Eustace is still a child .
A talking horse called Bree and a young boy named Shasta , both of whom are in bondage in the country of Calormen , are the protagonists .
Completed in March 1953 and published 4 September 1956 , The Last Battle chronicles the end of the world of The Chronicles of Narnia .
They maintain that much of the magic of The Chronicles of Narnia comes from the way the world is gradually presented in The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe -- that the mysterious wardrobe , as a narrative device , is a much better introduction to The Chronicles of Narnia than The Magician 's Nephew , where the word `` Narnia '' appears in the first paragraph as something already familiar to the reader .
When Aslan is first mentioned in The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe , for example , the narrator says that `` None of the children knew who Aslan was , any more than you do '' -- which is nonsensical if one has already read The Magician 's Nephew .
The only reason to read The Magician 's Nephew first ... is for the chronological order of events , and that , as every story teller knows , is quite unimportant as a reason .
Often the early events in The Chronicles of Narnia have a greater impact or effect as a flashback , told after later events which provide background and establish perspective .
The artistry , the archetypes , and the pattern of Christian thought all make The Chronicles of Narnia preferable to read the books in the order of their publication .
Jadis , commonly known during her rule of The Chronicles of Narnia as the White Witch , is the main antagonist of The Magician 's Nephew and The Lion , The Witch and the Wardrobe .
Shasta , later known as Cor of Archenland , is the principal character in The Horse and His Boy .
The main setting of The Chronicles of Narnia is the world of The Chronicles of Narnia constructed by Lewis and , in The Magician 's Nephew , the world containing the city of Charn .
One , the `` Rose Map of The Chronicles of Narnia '' , is based loosely on Baynes ' map and has Narnian trivia printed on the reverse .
The other , made in a monochromatic , archaic style reminiscent of maps of Tolkien 's Middle-earth , is available in print and in an interactive version on the DVD of the movie .
Some creatures in the book such as the one-footed Dufflepuds reflect elements of Greek , Roman and Medieval mythology while other Narnian creatures borrow from Greek and Germanic mythology by , for example , taking centaurs from the former and dwarfs from the latter .
In another parallel both Pullman 's Northern Lights and The Lion , the Witch , and the Wardrobe , the first books in The Chronicles of Narnia , open with a young girl hiding in a wardrobe .
Science-fiction author Greg Egan 's short story `` Oracle '' depicts a parallel universe in which an author nicknamed Jack ( Lewis ' nickname ) has written novels about the fictional `` Kingdom of Nesica '' , and whose wife is dying of cancer , paralleling the death of Lewis ' wife Joy Davidman .
J. K. Rowling , author of the Harry Potter series , has said that she was a fan of the works of Lewis as a child , and cites the influence of The Chronicles of Narnia on her work : `` I found myself thinking about the wardrobe route to The Chronicles of Narnia when Harry is told he has to hurl himself at a barrier in Kings Cross Station -- it dissolves and he 's on platform Nine and Three-Quarters , and there 's the train for Hogwarts '' .
Nevertheless she is at pains to stress the differences between The Chronicles of Narnia and her world : `` The Chronicles of Narnia is literally a different world '' , she says , `` whereas in the Harry books you go into a world within a world that you can see if you happen to belong .
A lot of the humour comes from collisions between the magic and the everyday worlds .
New York Times writer Charles McGrath notes the similarity between Dudley Dursley , the obnoxious son of Harry 's neglectful guardians , and Eustace Scrubb , the spoiled brat who torments the main characters until he is redeemed by Aslan .
The book Ultimate Lost and Philosophy , edited by William Irwin and Sharon Kaye , contains a comprehensive essay on Lost plot motifs based on The Chronicles of Narnia .
The Chronicles of Narnia was described by Slate magazine as one of the most culturally significant Saturday Night Live skits in many years , and an important commentary on the state of rap .
Swedish Christian power metal band The Chronicles of Narnia , whose songs are mainly about The Chronicles of Narnia or the Bible , feature Aslan on all their album covers .
In anticipation of the 9 December 2005 premiere of the film The Chronicles of Narnia : The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe , various Christian artists released a based on The Chronicles of Narnia .
A convert to Christianity in later life , Lewis had previously authored a number of works on Christian apologetics and other literature with Christian-based themes .
In later years , both Lewis and The Chronicles have been criticised ( often by other authors of fantasy fiction ) for Gender role stereotyping , though other authors have defended Lewis in this area .
In fantasy author Neil Gaiman 's short story `` The Problem of Susan '' ( 2004 ) , an elderly woman , Professor Hastings , deals with the grief and trauma of her entire family 's death in a train crash .
Other writers , including fan-magazine editor Andrew Rilstone , oppose this view , arguing that the `` lipsticks , nylons and invitations '' quote is taken out of context .
Many stage adaptations of The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe have been produced over the years .
Skeptical that any cinematic adaptation could render the more fantastical elements and characters of the story realistically , Lewis never sold the film rights to The Chronicles of Narnia .
Already in pre-production at the time , 20th Century Fox and Walden Media eventually co-produced , which was released in December 2010 going on to gross over $ 415 million worldwide .
`` Take Me Out to the Ball Game '' is a 1908 Tin Pan Alley song by Jack Norworth and Albert Von Tilzer which has become the unofficial anthem of baseball , although neither of Take Me Out to the Ball Game authors had attended a game prior to writing the song .
Fans are generally encouraged to sing along , and at some ballparks , the words `` home team '' are replaced with the team name , as is the case with the Houston Astros , San Francisco Giants , Pittsburgh Pirates , Boston Red Sox , Chicago Cubs , Chicago White Sox , Milwaukee Brewers , Philadelphia Phillies , Toronto Blue Jays , Miami Marlins , Colorado Rockies , Detroit Tigers and several other Major League Baseball teams .
Meeker 's recording was selected by the Library of Congress as a 2010 addition to the National Recording Registry , which selects recordings annually that are `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
The players and languages featured were Ken Griffey , Jr. ( American English ) , Alex Rodriguez ( Caribbean Spanish ) , Chan Ho Park ( Korean ) , Kazuhiro Sasaki ( Japanese ) , Graeme Lloyd ( Australian English ) , Éric Gagné ( Québécois French ) , Andruw Jones ( Dutch ) , John Franco ( Italian ) , Iván Rodríguez ( Caribbean Spanish ) , and Mark McGwire ( American English ) .
Take Me Out to the Ball Game is a 1908 Tin Pan Alley song by Jack Norworth and Albert Von Tilzer which has become the unofficial anthem of baseball , although neither of its authors had attended a game prior to writing the song .
T'ai chi ch ` uan or Taijiquan , often shortened to t ` ai chi , taiji or tai chi in English usage , is an internal Chinese martial art practiced for both Tai chi chuan defense training and Tai chi chuan health benefits .
The term `` t ` ai chi ch ` uan '' translates as `` supreme ultimate fist '' , `` boundless fist '' , `` supreme ultimate boxing '' or `` great extremes boxing '' .
The concept of the taiji ( `` supreme ultimate '' ) , in contrast with wuji ( `` without ultimate '' ) , appears in both Taoist and Confucian Chinese philosophy , where Tai chi chuan represents the fusion or mother of Yin and Yang into a single ultimate , represented by the taijitu symbol .
Since the first widespread promotion of t ` ai chi ch ` uan 's health benefits by Yang Shaohou , Yang Chengfu , Wu Chien-ch ` uan , and Sun Lutang in the early 20th century , Tai chi chuan has developed a worldwide following among people with little or no interest in martial training , for Tai chi chuan benefit to health and health maintenance .
Medical studies of t ` ai chi support Tai chi chuan effectiveness as an alternative exercise and a form of martial arts therapy .
Besides general health benefits and stress management attributed to t ` ai chi ch ` uan training , aspects of traditional Chinese medicine are taught to advanced t ` ai chi ch ` uan students in some traditional schools .
The physical techniques of t ` ai chi ch ` uan are described in the `` Tai chi chuan classics '' , a set of writings by traditional masters , as being characterized by the use of leverage through the joints based on coordination and relaxation , rather than muscular tension , in order to neutralize , yield , or initiate attacks .
The slow , repetitive work involved in the process of learning how that leverage is generated gently and measurably increases , opens the internal circulation ( breath , body heat , blood , lymph , peristalsis , etc. ) .
T'ai chi ch ` uan / Tai chi chuan is formed by the combination of three hanzi : ( Hanzi -- Wade-Giles / Pinyin -- Meaning ) Despite having a single Chinese spelling , 太極拳 , there are two different spellings in English usage , one derived from the Wade-Giles and the other from the Pinyin transliteration , with the West mostly being familiar with the Wade-Giles , t ` ai chi ch ` uan .
This name is often shortened by Westerners to `` t ` ai chi '' ( or `` Tai chi chuan , '' a common misspelling ) .
`` T'ai chi ch ` uan '' ( including `` t ` ai chi '' and Tai chi chuan misspellings ) still remains the popular spelling used by the general public today , however , many professional practitioners , masters and martial arts bodies ( such as the IWUF ) write Tai chi chuan as taijiquan .